Days after a report from the United States government concluded that climate change will likely result in the country’s economy shrinking by a whopping 10 percent, President Donald Trump disputed the findings of his own administration.The reportwhose conclusions were found by the 13 federal agencies comprising the US Global Change Research Programwas due for release in December, but was instead released the day after Thanksgiving in what many believe was an effort to lessen the report’s impact.The findings contradict the many efforts of the President to minimize the issue, reading:“With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century  more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states.”While many leaders would begin taking steps to avoid this outcome, Donald Trump rooted his feet firmly in denial before deploying his oft-used tactic of shifting the blame:“I don’t believe it…Right now we’re at the cleanest we’ve ever been and it’s very important to me. But if we’re clean but every other place on earth is dirty, that’s not so good. So I want clean air and clean water. Very important.”Watch the cringeworthy video below.BREAKING: "I don't believe it."President Trump passively rejects the findings of the major new US government multi-agency report that says climate change will wallop the US economy in years to come. https://t.co/ImcZSeAowf pic.twitter.com/hcUnY8Jdui— MSNBC (@MSNBC) November 26, 2018While Trump has often decried scientists’ findings on climate changeeven regarding it as a Chinese hoaxsome Americans were still flabbergasted that he won’t trust even his own administration’s findings.It's his Government. His administration. He doesn't believe anything unless it's on Fox.What a joke— John Goodwin (@okyoudoknowJack) November 26, 2018What would it take to make him understand?????— IseeU (@AFEriksen) November 26, 201813 government agencies, over 1,000 highly qualified experts, and Donnie Ding Dong doesnt believe it #WorstPresidentEver— Smessa (@smessatilly) November 26, 2018Many doubted he’d even read the report.It would have to be written in crayon with lots of pictures for him to even have read it— Jason Miller (@Jasonmiller321) November 26, 2018He read the title.— Jill Baker (@JBakerMarketing) November 26, 2018I don't believe he read it. Or that he can read.— Food-o-Graphics (@Food_o_Graphics) November 26, 2018Follow up and ask him which part he doesnt believe. Quickly expose him for lying that he even read any of it.— Louie (@Louie_Rock) November 26, 2018His reactions around the time of the report’s release could have been enough to predict this answer however.	Liberal
Twenty days after the midterm elections and some close races are just now being called. One of those is the race for 4th congressional district in Utah where Democrat Ben McAdams squared off against incumbent House Republican Mia Love.Love becomes the only GOP House incumbent in Utah to have her district go from red to blue.Monday, Representative Love gave her concession speech, stating she called McAdams to congratulate him on his victory over the weekend. But the only African American female member of the GOP in Congress had harsh words for the head of her party, President Donald Trump.Trump mocked Love in his news conference after the electionwhile votes were still being counted and no official winner declared in a race that ended with 50.1% for McAdams to 49.9% for Love. Trump said to reporters:“Mia Love gave me no love and she lost. Too bad. Sorry about that, Mia.”In her concession speech, Love stated:“When president Trump took a jab at me I was surprised at first.”“The President’s behavior towards me made me wonder: What did he have to gain by saying such a thing about a fellow Republican. It was not really about asking him to do more, was it? Or was it something else? Well Mr. President, we’ll have to chat about that.”“However, this gave me a clear vision of his world as it is. No real relationships, just convenient transactions. That is an insufficient way to implement sincere service and policy.”Watch her remarks here.Utah Rep. Mia Love, the only African-American woman among the House GOP ranks, criticizes Pres. Trump in her concession speech, saying he has “no real relationships, just convenient transactions.” https://t.co/9L4t7LVuct pic.twitter.com/JpHZLcibfx ABC News (@ABC) November 26, 2018Love went on to state:“Starting in January, my role will change and we still have a lot of work to do. We will not yield the moral high ground whatever the cost.”“Good news is, I’m not going away. But now, I am unleashed, I am untethered and I am unshackled, and I can say exactly what’s on my mind.”Watch Love’s full remarks here.The President faced criticism before over his statements about and treatment of African American women in Congress and in the press. He has also faced allegations of racism from former employees like Omarosa Manigault-Newman and Michael Cohen and the foreign and domestic press.People commented on Love’s revelation about the President.	Liberal
Fox News commentator Tomi Lahren sparked a firestorm on Monday after she took to Twitter to praise the use of tear gas by the United States Border Patrol on asylum-seeking refugees.American Border Patrol agents fired canisters of tear gas – a chemical weapon banned in warfare – on migrants seeking asylum in the United States.“Children screamed and coughed,” the Associated Press wrote as events unfurled in Tijuana, Mexico. “Fumes were carried by the wind toward people who were hundreds of feet away.”The gaswas employed after “around 500” refugees tried to squeeze through border fencing.“Bum-rushing the border is a CHOICE and has consequences,” Lahren wrote. “Watching the USA FINALLY defend our borders was the HIGHLIGHT of my Thanksgiving weekend.”Bum-rushing the border is a CHOICE and has consequences. Watching the USA FINALLY defend our borders was the HIGHLIGHT of my Thanksgiving weekend.  https://t.co/jAkfcgzRuN— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) November 26, 2018Twitter raged at Lahren for her sanctimonious support of the cruelty levied on unarmed civilians by President Donald Trump – over Thanksgiving weekend, no less.Painful ignorance.The irony of celebrating the mistreatment of refugees on Thanksgiving, a holiday celebrating the benevolence of the indigenous people that saved the refugees who fled persecution in Europe. Youre so ignorant, its painful.— Dylan (@dyllyp) November 26, 2018There are plenty of reasonable comments and arguments to made about borders and border security. But to actively celebrate something like this is truly disgusting.— Nick Bassano (@nbassano82) November 26, 2018Being an ignorant piece of trash is a CHOICE.— Thor Benson (@thor_benson) November 26, 2018While I do not completely agree with or support the mass group of illegal immigrants, if that truly was the highlight of your Thanksgiving weekend I really pity your life and what you do for a living.— Mike Gallo (@Gallo314Mike) November 26, 2018The blowback was brutal.At which point did you climax? Was it when the teargas hit the children?— Eddie Edwards (@eddie_e_edwards) November 26, 2018Was it the highlight because no one wanted to eat turkey with you because youre a total asshole?— Juliana Harkavy (@JulianaHarkavy) November 26, 2018I have never before in my life wished harder that there really is a god, and that people like you would one day stand in judgement before him for your treatment of other mankind.— Hoosier Momma (@amkenkent) November 26, 2018Mine was the turkey followed closely by time with family. It's weird you take such delight in suffering. I'm thankful I don't know you.— Paulito McLovin (@paulito_mclovin) November 26, 2018The highlight of your week is watching the mismanagement of refugees on a day that marks the virtue of the Indigenous peoples of America helping to save the lives of persecuted immigrants.— M.M. Schill (@mm_schill) November 26, 2018You are an awful human. But, to be fair, you're an incredible sub-human.— Roy Bragg (@roybragg) November 26, 2018I cant wait for the schadenfreude when karma comes to visit you.— Lisa Braun Dubbels (@lisadubbels) November 26, 2018Hes breaking the law & youre a monster — StrongerTogether (@mewhovotes) November 26, 2018 pic.twitter.com/YAwBD0QMVU— Cooper Boone (@bellaby99) November 26, 2018Twitter went aflutter on Sunday after Trump demanded Mexico capture migrants, whom he deemed without evidence as “stone cold criminals,” before threatening to completely close the southern border.	Liberal
President Donald Trump shocked the nation on Sunday when the armed forces he stationed at the border to meet the migrant caravan traveling to the border deployed tear gas on the asylum seekers, many of whom included women and toddlers.Tear gas assaults the mucous membranes to irritate skin and cause difficulty breathing, and creates a heat behind the eyes inducing them to water excessively.Despite the gas being deployed against toddlers, some are still choosing to stick up for the President’s policy. Among them is Trump critic-turned-ally Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC).Graham defended the President in a series of tweets.You have to really hate President @realDonaldTrump to not understand the problems created by the caravans. He is right to push back in order to deter future waves of illegal immigration.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) November 26, 2018I support President Trumps decision to close the border until we can get a handle on the chaos created by the broken laws governing asylum.    We must have money for border security/wall and must change asylum laws.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) November 26, 2018It is not illegal for people to enter the United States seeking asylum, but that hasn’t stopped many members of the GOP from painting the caravan as a group of violent criminals seeking to invade the country.Fortunately, Twitter users stepped up to the plate to correct Graham  and they didn’t mince words.Its not against the law to request asylum. Why is the government purposely creating a logjam at the legal ports of entry?  You are creating a humanitarian crisis.— IREgg (@IreneEggink) November 26, 2018You really have to be a weak person to be so overwhelmed with fear that you can't organize a civil response using courts, lawyers, logic, and compassion instead of tear gas. Let dems handle it, they're more capable than you idiots.— DDay (@qedigiv) November 26, 2018You have to really hate the Rule of Law and common decency to post such a thing, @LindseyGrahamSC.The "push back" you defend involves gassing toddlers, and seeking asylum is legal under US and International Law, and even Jesus had to do it when he was little.— @ArizonaIndivisible (@AZIndivisible1) November 26, 2018No, its not about hating Trump. Its about loving the principles of what being an American means. And tear gassing refugees trying to LEGALLY apply for asylum isnt the way true Americans act.— Zija Pulp (@zija_pulp) November 26, 2018Others called out Graham’s reversal in his opinion of the President, whom he once called a “race-baiting, xenophobic bigot.”You were right the first time, @LindseyGrahamSC pic.twitter.com/CjGmnlZCwJ— The Real McCoy (@BMcCoy06_The) November 26, 2018Trump is lying and you know it. These people are seeking asylum and youre allowing our tax dollars to be spent frivolously. You did a 360 on America!— Jacqueline Tribbet (@jptrib1) November 26, 2018You used to be a man of character @LindseyGrahamSC   Now you are just a shill for an evil man trying to replace democracy with authoritarianism. Reclaim your soul.— Sarah Alexander (@salex52) November 26, 2018Many are speculating the reasons for Graham’s constant defenses of Trump  even when these defenses pit him against public opinion.	Liberal
On Sunday night’s broadcast, CBS News 60 Minutes presented an in-depth review of the Trump administration’s family separation policy and the lingering effects on the detained children. The zero tolerance policy came through a Justice Department memo issued by then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions.The memo required all federal prosecutors to treat every case of entry into or living in the United States as a criminal act and prosecute every case, instead of using prosecutorial discretion and remanding some cases to civil court. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) under Kirstjen Nielsen also focused its efforts on the southern border and immigrants of South and Central American origin, which drew calls of racism against the Trump administration.President Donald Trump took exception to the60 Minutes report for criticizing him and his administration’s immigration and child separation policy. He took to Twitter Sunday to cry foul and repeat an often made false claim.The President posted:“[60 Minutes] did a phony story about child separation when they know we had the exact same policy as the Obama Administration. In fact a picture of children in jails was used by other Fake Media to show how bad (cruel) we are, but it was in 2014 during O years.”“Obama separated….children from parents, as did Bush etc., because that is the policy and law. I tried to keep them together but the problem is, when you do that, vast numbers of additional people storm the Border. So with Obama seperation (sic) is fine, but with Trump its not. Fake 60 Minutes!”.@60Minutes did a phony story about child separation when they know we had the exact same policy as the Obama Administration. In fact a picture of children in jails was used by other Fake Media to show how bad (cruel) we are, but it was in 2014 during O years. Obama separated…. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 26, 2018….children from parents, as did Bush etc., because that is the policy and law. I tried to keep them together but the problem is, when you do that, vast numbers of additional people storm the Border. So with Obama seperation is fine, but with Trump its not. Fake 60 Minutes! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 26, 2018While it is true that the Obama administration did deport a record number of people, under President Barack Obama, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) law enforcement arm of DHS focused on those with criminal histories, not families with young children.Under Obama, the DOJ and DHS deported more than 2.7 million people between fiscal years 2009 and 2016. And after a previous migrant caravan brought large numbers to the United States in 2014, children who came with their parents did not get separated from them, and if families got deported, they were deported together.Under the Obama administration, only unaccompanied minorschildren who arrived without a parent or guardianwere detained without their families. The Trump administration separated almost 2,000 children from their families in the spring of 2018, with no plans in place to track the children or ever reunite them with their parents.According toDenise Gilman, director of the Immigration Clinic at the University of Texas Law School:“There were occasionally instances where you would find a separated family  maybe like one every six months to a year  and that was usually because there had been some actual individualized concern that there was a trafficking situation or that the parent wasnt actually the parent.”People were quick to point out the difference to the President.	Liberal
The Washington Post reported last week that Ivanka Trump had used a personal email account for official White House business throughout much of 2017.Predictably, Donald Trump responded by dismissing any concerns about the report, denying any comparison between what Ivanka did and what he railed against Hillary Clinton for during the 2016 campaign.“You’re talking about a whole different — you’re talking about all fake news,” Trump said. “There was no deletion, there was no nothing. Hillary Clinton deleted 33,000 emails. She had a server in the basement. That’s the real story.” The emails Clinton deleted were all personal.President Trump: "Early on, and for a little period of time, Ivanka did some emails. They weren't classified like Hillary Clinton. They weren't deleted like Hillary Clinton." https://t.co/xQQLIyoRRq pic.twitter.com/d6PLmoIoaw— The Hill (@thehill) November 20, 2018Now, however, two high-ranking Congressional Republicans are pushing back against Ivanka Trump’s use of a private email server during her tenure at the White House, seeming to completely ignore the president’s dismissal.House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (SC), whose tenure as Chairman once Democrats take over in January, said Sunday on CBS’sFace the Nationthat the president’s dismissal of his daughter’s breach of the rules is concerning and worthy of investigation.“I am concerned any time any president prejudges the outcome of an investigation,” said Gowdy, who led the GOP’s Benghazi and email crusades against Hillary Clinton. “Congress has a responsibility to make sure that the records and the Presidential Records Act is complied with, and that’s true no matter who the person is.”Gowdy is also pressing the White House to disclose whether Ms. Trump’s emails contained sensitive or classified information.In a letter to Chief of Staff John Kelly, Gowdy demanded the information be submitted to him by December 5.“In light of the importance and necessity of preserving the public record and doing so in a manner that is reflective of relevant statutory and regulatory requirements,” wrote Gowdy, “the Committee must assess whether the White House took adequate steps to archive Ms. Trumps emails and prevent a recurrence.”Additionally, Senator Ron Johnson (WI),chair of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, sent a letter to the White House last Tuesday in an effort to determine whether Ms. Trump violated federal record keeping laws – specifically, thePresidential Records Act.Sent a letter to White House counsel asking for a briefing on Ivanka Trump's use of personal email. https://t.co/69PgpJ8Oeh— Senator Ron Johnson (@SenRonJohnson) November 21, 2018According to the report, Ms. Trump employed her personal email to contact Cabinet members and White House staff. Ms. Trump’s legal team has said she“almost always” used private email for scheduling matters involving her family.Social media is mixed on its expectations from Republicans and their willingness to hold the administration accountable – for anything.Anyone who said that #HillaryClinton's use of a private email server was problematic should approach #IvankaTrump's email use with the same scrutiny, or else be called hypocrites. — Anthony Lee, Voice Actor (@AnthonyLeeVoice) November 26, 2018Not to mention laws were changed and Ivanka broke them. Lock her up.— Natalie (@Natgcoh) November 25, 2018History won't be kind to Gowdy. Probably second only to Mitch McConnell as one of the biggest partisan hacks in the history of Congress.—  Andy from Oregon  (@AndrewFmOregon) November 25, 2018It is remarkable how principles shift when politics are no longer a factor.	Liberal
Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) suggested on Sunday that climate scientists are driven by money, following the release of a devastating new report outlining the current andfuture consequences of unchecked climate change.The study, which predicted up to a ten percent drop in GDP in coming decades because of climate change, was released on the Fridayafter Thanksgiving so it would go largely unnoticed by the public.“Good for them,” Santorum chuckled during an appearance on CNN’sState of the Union.This prompted host Dana Bash to recoil in her response:Alright, well, at least you guys are transparent about it.”Santorum charged thatthe latest report was “generated by people who are in the bureaucracy. These are not Trump appointees.Citing President Donald Trump, who has dubbed climate change a “hoax” perpetrated by the Chinese, said that the climate will “go back,” and that scientists “have a political agenda,” Santorum dug his heels in.I think the point that Donald Trump makes is true, which is  look, if there was no climate change, wed have a lot of scientists looking for work, Santorum said. The reality is that a lot of these scientists are driven by the money that they receive. Neither of Santorum’s or Trump’s comments is true.A gasp can be heard in the studio as Santorum continues his assault on objective reality.You can watch the clip below:CNN's Rick Santorum praises Trump administration trying to bury report on climate change: "A lot of these scientists are driven by the money" pic.twitter.com/ndwpkQHUxH— Media Matters (@mmfa) November 25, 2018“And of course the money they receive isn’t from big corporations… because it’s tainted,” Santorum said, adding that he “believes” scientists are being funded by people “who support their agenda.”“No one doubts that the climate is changing,” the Republican pundit said. “The question is how much does man contribute” (nearly all of it, according to scientists), and “what can man do to actually change it?” Incredibly, Santorum then boasted that no one is asking these questions.The madness did not end there, however.When challenged by fellow panelist Symone Sanders, who mentioned the wildfires in California, Santorum blamed the blazes on “the forestry policies of the state of California.” Trump last week falsely said that a lack of raking leaves was the cause of the worst infernos in California history. The fires are a direct result of a warming planet.Santorum is a paid political commentator who has no scientific training or qualifications to negate the science of climate change.If Santorum had any pertinent financial interests of his own, CNN would disclose that fact, right? Especially after hurling such an accusation against others? https://t.co/4WpLCs2OLf— David Frum (@davidfrum) November 25, 2018Thus, Santorum and his employer CNN got savaged on Twitter.Hey @RickSantorum: That disingenuous talking point about climate scientists is almost as stale as the empty home you maintained in Pennsylvania to falsely claim residency in our state: https://t.co/zFtI5nQtHn— Michael E. Mann (@MichaelEMann) November 25, 2018CNN is “completely nuts” for letting Santorum speak on this issue, wrote Media Matters’ John Whitehouse.This Santorum clip is COMPLETELY nuts even by the standards of the intro Trump clips. It's unbelievable that CNN pays for this conspiracy theory nonsense.— John Whitehouse (@existentialfish) November 25, 2018With that illogical, uninformed view @RickSantorum shows he's not #conservative. Only ignorant. People are talking about the solid conclusion that the warming we see is caused by human actions and there are reasonable policy options to further reduce US emissions.— Jim Tolbert (@JimTolbertNC) November 26, 2018Indeed, letting Santorum spread climate conspiracies is “a major dereliction of duty” by CNN.This thread is damning and the fact that a network puts on pundits and political hacks like Rick Santorum to speak on an issue as serious as climate change instead of scientists is absolutely a major dereliction of duty. https://t.co/QWJnAF16eH— Erick Fernandez (@ErickFernandez) November 25, 2018Why does CNN keep this bag of wind, Santorum on the panels? Why are there panels? Report the news the old fashioned way! I dont want to hear the pros and cons (biased opinions from both sides) of whats being reported. ITS TIRED!— Coach Omar (@442427) November 25, 2018Seeking scientific thoughts from Rick Santorum!!!  Shame on CNN.  CNN should stop giving him appearance in its show.— Paul D Panakal (@paudom88) November 26, 2018CNN is “doing real harm to their credibility” by employing Santorum, who offered no evidence to support his claims (because there is none).By continuing to employ Rick Santorum, @cnn is doing real harm to their credibility. Here RS says his personal conclusion that climate scientists are being paid to make up their climate assessments – without a shred of evidence. https://t.co/1fMXgRz70Q— Marlon Weems (@GeekTrader) November 25, 2018@RickSantorum: What a complete hypocrite. Financial interest? Really? Who has the financial interest? How much money are you getting from the oil and gas industry? What interest could you possibly be serving by not admitting to climate change? Ridiculous.— Mister Winston (@MisterDWinston) November 25, 2018Why is CNN not hiring experts to give the public accurate information?CNN could likely hire 8 experts to actually explain climate change to its audience for the price it pays Rick Santorum to muddy the waters on a looming catastrophe in the name of balance. https://t.co/xCiXGfCh0D— Pat Cunnane (@PatCunnane) November 25, 2018Obviously, @RickSantorum has never met a real scientist. A PhD research science career is **NOT** a path to great wealth.— Mindful Majority (@MindfulMajority) November 25, 2018Santorum’s assertions about scientists raking in money are completely unfounded and utterly ridiculous.Where, then, are all the rich scientists?If you harbor doubts about climate change you should ask yourself one question:  Is it more likely scientists are "driven by the money". or capitalists who perpetuate the crisis, and their political stooges like Rick Santorum?— John Blackman (@DefyMasters) November 25, 2018where are all these millionaire climate scientists i keep hearing aboutare they the stonecutters do they have their own tropical playground like mar-a-lago but secretill bet that the 10,000 exxonmobil employees in houston alone make more every climate scientist in history pic.twitter.com/0DtKboFirN— godhatesyeast (@godhatesyeast) November 25, 2018Scientist out for money?#!#? I never thought they made that much money, opposed to oil executives and politicains they hire.— carp40404 (@carp40404) November 26, 2018Research scientists make money by making up data? I thought that was how we lose our jobs. Santorum and others should know that even a tenured professor in any area of science would be fired for faking data and publishing it.— Jeff Dyche (@dychejs) November 26, 2018Money does drive one aspect of climate change – denial.	Liberal
Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine is widely regarded as a moderate voice in the Senate, willing to reach across the aisle for the best interests of her home state and the country. But that reputation has taken a hitperhaps irreparablysince President Donald Trump took office.Now Collins is seen as all bark, no biteall talk, no action.While Collins still talks a “moderate” game, her actions on key legislation like the GOP/Trump tax breaks and on the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court followed party lines.Now she is speaking up about the latest Trump outrage — Collins took to Twitter Sunday to warn of possible action by Congress if Trump failed to acknowledge and act on information from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) regarding the murder of Saudi journalist and dissident Jamal Khashoggi, a United States resident.“It is a grave mistake for the President to ignore the CIA’s widely reported assessment on the Khashoggi murder. If the President does not reconsider what actions our government should take toward the Saudi Government & MBS, Congress must act instead.”It is a grave mistake for the President to ignore the CIAs widely reported assessment on the Khashoggi murder. If the President does not reconsider what actions our government should take toward the Saudi Government & MbS, Congress must act instead. Sen. Susan Collins (@SenatorCollins) November 25, 2018“MbS” is a reference toSaudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman who, the CIA says, ordered the assassination of Khashoggi.But people were not buying Collins’ threat to take action if the President fails to respond appropriately to the journalist’s murder at a Saudi consulate in Turkey.The response on Twitter to Collins’ assertion that “Congress must act” drew widespread criticism over Collins’s failure to act when needed in the past, and skepticism over her following through on any promise to challenge this administration.Respectfully Senator Collins, why are you weighing in on anything, especially congressional action, something you so infamously FAILED to do. The state of Maine should be embarrassed. Simply hush and walk way Susan. You single handedly broke Americas heart???? ProfessorBiz (@MrSoNso21) November 26, 2018Agree!! I can no longer complement anything you say! I was totally let down by your yesvote drunk man. Retire. Victoria Burkert (@VictoriaBurker3) November 26, 2018Seriously @SenatorCollins dont run again… we are done with your hollow words and theatrics. No one has faith in you now. There is right and wrong, good and light – you made your choice. Resist ??? (@mainegranny2020) November 26, 2018Why are you bothering to go through the motions stating these things, you spineless, feckless, simpering coward?When this is all over, I hope to see every one of you who enabled this traitor and his human rights violations frog marched off to prison right alongside him. Christopher Miller (@Gwtheyrn) November 26, 2018You had your chance to stand up for what was right. You failed, and lost all your credibility with it. Rick Meneely (@RickMeneely) November 26, 2018What are you prepared to do based on President Low Ts actions, Senator? Vote with him 100% of the time?Im sure youre aware that 2020 wont be kind to you. Your chance to do the right thing passed when you let the women of the world & all Americans down!#WeBelieveDrFord pic.twitter.com/PkhbeH7E7m Dave ?? (@zflowrpowr) November 26, 2018If only you knew someone in Congress, maybe even a Senator, who would both SAY something and then DO something about this. David Clarke (@davidclarke76) November 26, 2018You have to give credit to Sen Susan Collins for being consistent. She always clutches her pearls & fans her face as she laments the tragedy of the day. But when it’s time for a vote, she lines up with the rest of the Repubs and votes without a conscience. The Breeze (@NwMtnGuy) November 26, 2018When criticized for her past votes following Republican party linesputting the GOP before country and constituencyCollins claimed misogyny was behind her critics.	Liberal
David Stockman, budget director for former President Ronald Reagan, blasted President Donald Trump as a “madman” during an appearance on Fox Business Friday morning.Stockman told hostCharles Payne that the economy, which Trump routinely touts as the best and strongest in history (it is not), is at risk for a crash because Trump is acting “like a madman.”“How far down do we go from here?” Payne asked.“I have no idea but the foundation is not stable,” replied Stockman.Weve got a perfect storm of a madman in the White House whos pursuing trade wars, border wars, a fiscal policy that is totally out to lunch, and attacking the fed.Payne fired back, as only Fox Business can.“Let me just stop you, before you run them all, let’s just get one at a time,” Payne interjected.Its kind of harsh to call President Trump a madman.But Stockman stood his ground.“Oh,” Stockman needled at Trump, “absolutely he is.”Watch the clip below: Twitter’s sided with Stockman.Faux can't handle Stockman describing Treason Trump as a madman….. https://t.co/6WSAVeiP3Q— Showboat7 (@Showboat7) November 23, 2018Hes right- we have a mad man in the White House.— Renana Busch (@rabhatty) November 23, 2018Lol! That was thoroughly enjoyable. Good on ya #DavidStockman— IndeedIAm (@indeedIam86) November 23, 2018That was awesome. —   (@BrandiLynn4Ever) November 23, 2018Madman in the White House: Got this one right!— BenTillerman (@Bennytillerman) November 23, 2018Thank you David Stockman. Does Fox not vet its guests? I would think Stockman has been speaking/writing these views.— Karen Gates (@KEGates) November 23, 2018Oopsie !— Clayton Pierce (@fishreplicas1) November 23, 2018Well, he is a madman.  So what's wrong with honesty?— Varley (@bnortonaz) November 23, 2018@FoxBusiness Well said David Stockman!— Anne-Marie (@burkie504) November 23, 2018that was FANTASTIC— Pinche Macha (@PincheMacha) November 23, 2018As the two men continued to spar, Payne tried to deflect the conversation when he falsely claimed that China is itching to start a war with the United States.	Liberal
Republicans on the U.S. House Judiciary Committee this weeksubpoenaedformer FBI Director James Comey and ex-Attorney General Loretta Lynch to discuss their respective involvement in the 2016 presidential campaign. According to the subpoenas, they are due to testify in private on December 3 and 4 respectively.But Comey has announced he plans onresisting the subpoena — a last-ditch chest-thumping by ranking Committee member Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) in the final weeks of the GOP’s majority in the House — unless he is allowed to testify publicly.In a “Happy Thanksgiving” tweet on Thursday, Comey said he would be “happy to sit in the right and answer all questions,” but will “resist a closed door thing because Ive seen enough of their selective leaking and distortion.”“Let’s have a hearing,” he added,” and invite everyone to see.”Happy Thanksgiving. Got a subpoena from House Republicans. Im still happy to sit in the light and answer all questions. But I will resist a closed door thing because Ive seen enough of their selective leaking and distortion.  Lets have a hearing and invite everyone to see.— James Comey (@Comey) November 22, 2018Comey’s lawyer David Kelley issued a more extensive statement, calling the request for closed hearings a “political stunt.”Mr. Comey embraces and welcomes a hearing open to the public, but the subpoena issued yesterday represents an abuse of process, a divergence from House rules and its presumption of transparency. Accordingly, Mr. Comey will resist in court this abuse of process.The full statement from Comeys lawyer David Kelley: pic.twitter.com/e4bMWeqwr7— Kyle Cheney (@kyledcheney) November 22, 2018Following his tweet, Comey has been enjoying an impressive amount of support on social media.That's how a innocent man responds to a request to answer questions.— Danton's Head (@pfhanley63) November 23, 2018No closed door means crooked #fakepresident cronies rewrite the facts. Open door only!— texastreasures0 (@texastreasures0) November 23, 2018Perhaps #HouseReplublicans want to talk to #Comey about #IvankasEmails in private, so no one will know. #TrumpCrimeFamily #TrumpIsNotAboveTheLaw— Taiwan Martinez (@TaMartinez) November 23, 2018Dont let them get away with a closed door hearings like the Dickstein-McCormick hearings. The same 1% family's today attempted a Coup in 1933 , failed and covered it up. 2016 they found their stooge to get the job done. Your in our prayers. pic.twitter.com/ieyDZ0Gacb— Peter M. Gatliff (@RailrodeMike) November 23, 2018I agree – we need open depositions so we can hear the real testimony not Jordans spin— teresa (@moxieava) November 23, 2018People are all about keeping the foundering GOP in check.That's right, make it transparent, open, and keep it honest. Way to trigger the cheating complicit Republicans — Trump is a psychopath (@_standchen) November 23, 2018Or it could be that Comey just wants to keep everything in the open so the Rep. can't lie about his answers afterward.  After all,  they do follow Trump and we all know HE doesn't lie.— SpPalmer (@BongardSandra) November 23, 2018I agree.  I think we all should hear the questions and the answers.  How dare the GOP do this.  They are just trying to do what Trump wants them to do.— Karen Davidson (@rhian25556) November 23, 2018House Republicans handing out subpoenas at this late date is desperation personified.— Steven White (@stevenjwhite) November 23, 2018Exactly. Yet they have the cojones to act like trump is above a subpoena. Bad look. Cant they even TRY to hide their hypocrisy? NO ONE thinks this is anything but partisan.— ArielJohnson (@ArielZJohnson) November 23, 2018Well, most criminals try to slither in the dark. They are being forced into the light.— Elinor (@Elinor27652146) November 23, 2018since you no longer have a security clearance, nothing discussed would be secret so it SHOULD be open and televised.— Su Voted. (@subanski) November 23, 2018Finally! Gotta scroll down way too much in the comments to find this logical tweet.They want a private interrogation? Get a judicial subpoena!— TBD (@SamdelASR787) November 23, 2018People think they know why the Republicans don’t want the testimony to be public.	Liberal
President Donald Trump expressed doubt regarding the Central Intelligence Agency’s conclusion that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ordered the brutal killing ofWashington Postreporter Jamal Khashoggi. The statement led to national outcry, with Americans everywhere decrying Trump for being soft on Saudi Arabia, indicating with inaction just how little the sanctity of a free press means to him.While many lawmakers on both sides of the aisle expressed reactions ranging from dismay to disgust, most of the criticisms were restrainedexcept for one.Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) left no room for doubt on her feelings regarding the matter.Hey @realdonaldtrump: being Saudi Arabias bitch is not America First.— Tulsi Gabbard (@TulsiGabbard) November 21, 2018While political figures who aren’t the president typically aren’t wont to use such candid language, many on Twitter thought Gabbard’s statement was spot on.OMG love you!— Kerim (@UCLAKerim) November 21, 2018 pic.twitter.com/G54FbcmHfY— Johnny (@zildjianpro) November 21, 2018Mahalo for saying what we're all thinking. #legit— Liz Voted (@HIfromLiz) November 21, 2018I've never been so proud of my Representative.  Thank you for saying what you mean, exactly as you mean it.  Your words truly echo the voices of your constituents, Ms. Gabbard.— Jonathan Botticelli (@jrbotti) November 21, 2018Though some confused Gabbard’s bluntness for tactlessness, her sentiments were generally the same as even many Republican lawmakers: Letting Saudi Arabia get away with entrapment and murder gave the regime all the power and tarnished the integrity of the United States.I never thought Id see the day a White House would moonlight as a public relations firm for the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia. https://t.co/MQ4JsoQtqk— Senator Bob Corker (@SenBobCorker) November 20, 2018The President indicates that Saudi Arabia is the lesser two evils compared to Iran and so the U.S. won't punish Saudi Arabia for the brutal killing and dismemberment of a dissident journalist in their consulate. I disagree. https://t.co/0kr2kIyT0P— Rand Paul (@DrRandPaul) November 20, 2018I fully realize we have to deal with bad actors and imperfect situations on the international stage.  However, when we lose our moral voice, we lose our strongest asset.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) November 20, 2018Trump’s weakness comes just before a crucial moment with Saudi Arabia.	Liberal
Cindy McCain, thewidow of the late Senator John McCain (R-AZ), tore into President Donald Trump for his disrespectful treatment of her husband and explained why Trump was excluded from McCain’s funeral in August.When asked about Donald Trump’s conspicuous absence from the funeral, Mrs. McCain told the BBC:Even though it was a very public funeral, we are still a family. And for all of us, and for the sake of my own children, I didn’t want any disruption. This was about John, not about anything else at all, and our country. It was important to me that we kept it respectful and calm and not politicize it. Sounding funny coming from a political family in a political country, but it was important that we kept it with dignity.”Understandably, Mrs. McCain still begrudges Trump for his insistence that her husband was not a war hero.Hes not a war hero, Trump grumbled at the Family Leadership Summit in 2015. He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who werent captured.Mrs. McCain said Trump’s remarks were demeaning toward her family and to all veterans.I thought it was inappropriate and wrong, I really did. It hurt the family too, Mrs. McCain said. And he hurt the other men that served with John and were in prison as well. It wasnt just about John, it was all the other people. I think that was a wrong thing to say and I dont think Ill ever get over it.I dont know if Ill ever get over it; Ill be honest, she said. But Im the wife. Thats my prerogative. I dont have to.Watch the interview below:From the reactions on social media, it’s safe to say history will be on Mrs. McCain’s side.Amen to that.—  Irony the Clown  (@ironytheclown) November 21, 2018Good call n— Linda Colby (@lcolby52) November 21, 2018Smart lady— Michael J (@Arthurknight) November 21, 2018the truth hurts— Rodger Thompson (@Cottonmouth1941) November 21, 2018Dignity. A word Trump doesnt understand— Paul Pants (@paulpantsct) November 21, 2018Burn…— Lucas Osborne (@luketosborne) November 21, 2018Trump did not attend McCain’s funeral, however, his daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner, along withWhite House Chief of Staff John Kelly and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, showed up to pay their respects.Twitter thinks the memorial service would have been better without the presence of anyone named Trump.Agreed…who want to invite a goofy grump?— BeContentLife (@BeContentLife) November 21, 2018Amen Cindy.  Too bad @IvankaTrump polluted it.— travelarounr (@travelarounr) November 21, 2018GOOD NOBODY WANTS CHUMP AROUND— TUEYORICAN (@tueyorican) November 21, 2018But Donny thinks he should be Time's Man of the Year!— Gil Noble (@GilGnoble) November 21, 2018Earlier in the interview, Mrs. McCain shared her thoughts on Trump’s political future and whether or not he can win her support.	Liberal
Embattled Mississippi Republican Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith is taking heat again during her campaign to retain her seat against Democratic challenger Mike Espy. This time over a resurfaced video from a National Rifle Association banquet she attended in 2013.Senator Hyde-Smith was appointed to her position in April 2018 by Mississippi GovernorPhil Bryant to fill the seat vacated by Senator Thad Cochran who resigned for health reasons. According to her official Senate page bio, Hyde-Smith is “a strong social conservative” with “a 100 percent pro-life rating.” In the next sentence, it states:“Hyde-Smith is a lifetime member of the NRA.”The Mississippi Republican Party loaded the video on YouTube in 2013 and the NRA endorsed the Republican in August 2018. The video was shared on Twitter by Democratic Coalition founder Scott Dworkin on Tuesday and quickly spread. Watch it here.BREAKING: Here is video we just found of gun nut Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith at an NRA banquet saying: “We do love our God and love our guns … I’m just really proud to be a part of the NRA. Proud that they’re doing what they’re doing, and I can be a small part of that effort.” pic.twitter.com/hJoBchxKcM Scott Dworkin (@funder) November 21, 2018Mississippi Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith at an @NRA banquet: “We do love our God and our guns … I’m just really proud to be a part of the NRA. Proud that they’re doing what they’re doing, and I can be a small part of that effort.”Vote @espyforsenate pic.twitter.com/JNqxr7f9FP Shannon Watts (@shannonrwatts) November 21, 2018One reaction to the Senator’s comments came from Fred Guttenberg. Guttenberg’s 14-year-old daughter Jamie was murdered in a mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Valentine’s Day.Guttenberg dedicates much of his time to promoting common sense gun control in memory of his daughter and the 16 others murdered in her Parkland, Florida, school. The grieving father took to Twitter to state:“Cindy Hyde-Smith, we disagree. Because of people like you and the NRA doing as you say “what they’re doing”, my daughter and other victims of gun violence are dead!!! Glad you are proud to be a part of my daughter’s murder. Take your NRA loving and racist tendencies elsewhere.”Cindy Hyde-Smith, we disagree. Because of people like you and the NRA doing as you say “what they’re doing”, my daughter and other victims of gun violence are dead!!! Glad you are proud to be a part of my daughter’s murder. Take your NRA loving and racist tendencies elsewhere. https://t.co/jLhgWNIVGH Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) November 21, 2018Guttenberg was by no means alone in his sentiment.	Liberal
Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts railed against President Donald Trump after Trump chided a federal judge who ruled against the president’s ban on asylum-seekers.On Tuesday, Judge Jon S. Tigar of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California temporarilyblocked the federal government from denying entry to migrants seeking political asylum between legal points of entry at the southern border.“Whatever the scope of the president’s authority,” Tigar said in his opinion, “he may not rewrite the immigration laws to impose a condition that Congress has expressly forbidden.”Trump, in response, called the ruling a “disgrace” and denounced Tigar as an “Obama judge,” echoing his administration’s growing frustration with the judiciary.Trump then issued a threat against the Ninth Circuit, which has routinely bucked Trump’s policies.“We’re gonna have to look at that,” Trump blustered. “This was an Obama judge. And I’ll tell you what, it’s not going to happen anymore.”In a rare statementto the Associated Press on Wednesday, Roberts denounced Trump’s ire with the courts and pressed the importance of having an independent judiciary.“We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges,” Roberts charged. “What we have is an extraordinary group of dedicated judges doing their level best to do equal right to those appearing before them.”Roberts added: “That independent judiciary is something we should be thankful for.”The full statement from Chief Justice John Roberts issued after Trump (again) criticized the Judiciary amid his asylum ban being blocked pic.twitter.com/95wMH0rCXy— Seung Min Kim (@seungminkim) November 21, 2018Late Tuesday, Trump responded on Twitter:Sorry Chief Justice John Roberts, but you do indeed have Obama judges, and they have a much different point of view than the people who are charged with the safety of our country. It would be great if the 9th Circuit was indeed an independent judiciary, but if it is why……— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 21, 2018…..are so many opposing view (on Border and Safety) cases filed there, and why are a vast number of those cases overturned. Please study the numbers, they are shocking. We need protection and security – these rulings are making our country unsafe! Very dangerous and unwise!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 21, 2018Some people were thrilled over Roberts’ check on Trump’s thirst for demonizing the courts.Spoken like the Chief Justice, Thank you pic.twitter.com/FFN34zJB27— Cameron Lewis (@yoURDATAisyours) November 21, 2018Powerful!!— Russ Colvin (@wrcolvin5) November 21, 2018agent orange continually being put in his place.  love it— Scott Muir (@ScottMuir_) November 21, 2018Thank you— m carr (@maduswiss) November 21, 2018This just confirms that Trump believes without doubt that judges nominated and confirmed under him – should be loyal to him without question.  Both the Judicial and Legislative  branches should be concerned…— Rick Gibbs  (@DGibglo) November 21, 2018The fact that the Chief Justice had to say that tells you how terrible Trump is as President.— David R. Veloz (@David747Heavy) November 21, 2018Very well stated Mr. Roberts.— Gonzarelli (@Gonzarelli) November 21, 2018FINALLY!!!  SOMEONE IN POWER WILLING TO STAND UP TO THE DESPOT!!!!!  REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMEN SHOULD BE ASHAMED THAT CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS HAD TO SPEAK UP BECAUSE HE SAW NO ONE ELSE WOULD.  THANK YOU CHIEF JUSTICE!! @The_Trump_Train @realDonaldTrump— Racer (@lucypines) November 21, 2018Simply…Thank you.— Yvonne Figueroa (@deesnuggumsyf) November 21, 2018That's an ideal sentiment but it seems to ignore the fact that cases are specifically brought it a very specific circuit on a routine basis, with highly predictable outcomes.— Michelle Leathers (@leath12_mejq) November 21, 2018Thats an accurate statement by the Judge!.. But bitch McConnell would differ with Roberts. Can you say Gorsuch— mike mike (@mike_abronm) November 21, 2018Yes, thank God for an independent judiciary, specially in Trump times!— Brian W. Allan (@bwana4swahili) November 21, 2018But not everyone was on board with Roberts’ assessment.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s refusal to condemn the Crown Prince of Saudi ArabiaMohammed bin Salman for the brutal murder ofWashington Postreporter Jamal Khashoggi left Americans shocked. Though the Saudi government has denied it, the Central Intelligence Agency concluded that Khashoggi’s murderers were acting on direct orders from the Crown Prince himself, against whom Khashoggi was a fierce dissident.In Trump’s statement on the atrocity, he first demonizes Iran then hails Saudi Arabia then brags about the money he’s gotten for the United States through Saudi Arabia. He doesn’t mention Jamal Khashoggi until the fourth paragraph.And while that was disgraceful enough to many, theWall Street Journalis pointing out a topic he omitted outright.In the statement, the President, whose infamous campaign slogan wasMake America Great Again, gave no attention to the qualities that make America great (spoiler alert: America didn’t get great by killing journalists).The Wall Street Journalsaid in the piece:we are aware of no President, not even such ruthless pragmatists as Richard Nixon or Lyndon Johnson, who would have written a public statement like this without so much as a grace note about Americas abiding values and principles. Ronald Reagan especially pursued a hard-line, often controversial, foreign policy against Soviet Communism, but he did so with a balance of unblinkered realism and American idealism. Mr. Trump seems incapable of such balance.TheWall Street Journalis typically regarded as a more conservative outlet, so the editorial board’s bristling of the President left some surprised.Even the WSJ editors were a little unsettled by Trump's Saudi propaganda today https://t.co/mp5Ls36TTE— Daniel Larison (@DanielLarison) November 21, 2018The WSJ editorial board has kissed Trump's ass mostly.  Now their scared as he further comes unglued.  Trump will take down many who have looked the other way.— red8scorp (@red8scorp) November 21, 2018Even the @WSJ isnt having President Trumps bizarre, rambling statement on the murder of Jamal #Khashoggi or the crass money-grubbing it represents. https://t.co/8unrDkhf3h— Andrew Feinberg (@AndrewFeinberg) November 21, 2018Americans are taking the paper’s side, pointing out how starkly Saudi leaders contrast American values and often humanity itself.The current regime in Saudia Arabia:– Killed a Washington Post journalist, Jamal #Khashoggi– Bombed a schoolbus in Yemen that killed 40 children– Leading a war in #Yemen that has left 500,000 children facing famineTrump's reply: "They're a great economic partner"— Khaled Beydoun (@KhaledBeydoun) November 21, 2018Saudi Arabia must be held accountable. There must be consequences. There must be justice.— Beto O'Rourke (@BetoORourke) November 21, 2018A journalist killed on foreign soil. Nearly 100,000 Yemeni kids under the age of 5 dead from starvation. For this Administration, profits and praise from Saudi Arabia matter more than their murders and horrifying human rights abuses. https://t.co/UaKwzN0QHb— Rep. Joe Kennedy III (@RepJoeKennedy) November 21, 2018Unfortunately, the cruelty in Trump’s statement doesn’t come as a surprise.	Liberal
President Donald Trump thanked Saudi Arabia for lower oil prices in a tweet earlier today.“$54, was just $82,” the president wrote. “Thank you to Saudi Arabia, but let’s go lower!”Oil prices getting lower. Great! Like a big Tax Cut for America and the World. Enjoy! $54, was just $82. Thank you to Saudi Arabia, but lets go lower!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 21, 2018The president was immediately criticized for his statements. His words, for many, served as an example of his unwavering support for Saudi Arabia amid outrage overCrown PrinceMohammed bin Salman’s role in ordering the murder ofWashington Postcolumnist Jamal Khashoggi. Others pointed out that the president’s claim about oil prices is, in fact, misleading.I’d like to say that you lying about oil economics to try to justify a murder and dismemberment is a new low for you, but unfortunately, there’s no such thing as a new low for you.America shouldn’t aid and abet the murder and dismemberment of journalists, you psycho. JRehling (@JRehling) November 21, 2018Translation: My family and the Kushner family get tens of millions from Saudi Arabia, if they want to kill journalists from America, so be it. Bruno Amato (@BrunoAmato_1) November 21, 2018Bullshit as usual. We get far more oil from Latin America and Canada than Saudi. Hell, we produce almost 40% of our own. Don’t use oil to cover up the fact that you let a petty Dictator murder a journalist, under U.S. protection, and did NOTHING. You embarrass America every day. pic.twitter.com/7ZV8pVd1G4 Madmama (@madmamavotes) November 21, 2018Shouldn’t we be thanking ourselves, not a regime of “royals”? We just switched to “winter blend” gasoline which is cheaper, plus the US and Saudi’s are each the two largest producers in the world. In the northern tier of states, gasoline is about 8 cents less than last year#Fool Cyndy Stachowiak (@CyndyStachowiak) November 21, 2018Who cares that they ordered an assassination, so long as I can get my fuel for cheaper! And while we are on the oil topic – climate change is still #FakeNews right? Nathan Bowling (@nathan_bowling) November 21, 2018Saudi Arabia had initially denied any involvement in Khashoggis disappearance but claimed via state media last monththat Khashoggi, aWashington Postcolumnist, had been strangled in a fistfight with 15 men sent to confront him at the Saudi consulate in Turkey. The kingdom blamed some of the crownprinces inner circle for the murder, and several high-ranking officials were dismissed if not detained outright.The intelligence community has concluded that Crown Prince bin Salman ordered Khoshoggi’s murder. Last month,sources familiar with Khashoggis casetoldCNN thatKhashoggis murder was organized by a high-ranking officer with the General Intelligence Presidency, Saudi Arabias main intelligence service.The report continues:One of those sources described the officer as close to the inner circle of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. It is unclear whether the crown prince authorized an interrogation, abduction or killing. Several officials CNN spoke with said the mission could not have happened without the direct knowledge of the 33-year-old crown prince, the kingdoms de facto ruler, who is known by his initials MBS.A second source said the officer assembled and sent his own team to interrogate Khashoggi. They suspected Khashoggi of having ties to the kingdoms arch rival, Qatar, the source said. There has been no evidence to substantiate Khashoggi had such ties.Another source told CNN the missions organizer was not transparent about what he told Riyadh, which, the source said, explained why the government had no clear information for days.A Turkish official told the network that Khashoggis body was cut into pieces after he was killed.Yesterday, however, the president, in a 649-word-statement,there was nothing definitive linking the Crown Prince to the murder.Our intelligence agencies continue to assess all information, but it could very well be that the crown prince had knowledge of this tragic event  maybe he did and maybe he didnt!” the president said. “That being said, we may never know all of the facts surrounding the murder of MrJamal Khashoggi. In any case, our relationship is with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.	Liberal
After decades of the White House Correspondents Dinner (WHCD)put on by the White House Correspondents Associationfeaturing a roast style comedian as the guest speaker, the WHCA announced Monday it would replace the usual comedian with author and presidential biographer, Ron Chernow. And both last year’s speaker, comedian Michelle Wolf, and President Donald Trump had something to say about it on Twitter.The annual event is a century old tradition. According to last year’s dinner chair,the WHCD “has been and will continue to be a celebration of the First Amendment and the important role played by an independent news media in a healthy republic.”This year, the WHCA took to Twitter to announce a new direction for the planned 2019 event.WHCA Announces Acclaimed Author Ron Chernow as Featured Speaker for 2019 Annual Dinner. For more, https://t.co/4V0D785Pbi pic.twitter.com/VBDMwxVdWI WHCA (@whca) November 19, 2018Which President Trump couldn’t help but comment on in a barbed tweet on Tuesday directed at Wolf, whose speech last year caused a stir, ruffling the feathers of the thin-skinned commander in chief and his aides.“So-called comedian Michelle Wolf bombed so badly last year at the White House Correspondents Dinner that this year, for the first time in decades, they will have an author instead of a comedian. Good first step in comeback of a dying evening and tradition! Maybe I will go?”So-called comedian Michelle Wolf bombed so badly last year at the White House Correspondents Dinner that this year, for the first time in decades, they will have an author instead of a comedian. Good first step in comeback of a dying evening and tradition! Maybe I will go? Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 21, 2018But Wolf immediately fired back with a reference to Trump’s announcement that he would back Saudi Arabia and their Crown Prince even though they directed the murder of a United States resident, journalist Jamal Khashoggi.Wolf tweeted:“I bet you’d be on my side if I had killed a journalist. #BeBest”I bet you’d be on my side if I had killed a journalist. #BeBest https://t.co/bZ91Cg0QCr Michelle Wolf (@michelleisawolf) November 21, 2018Wolf also included a reference to First Lady Melania Trump’s anti-bullying campaign: Be Best. This is not the first time the two sparred on Twitter since the 2018 WHCD.Others also weighed in on Trump’s dig at Wolf and the WHCA capitulation to White House pressure.	Liberal
Former Congressman Mike Espy (D-MS) ripped into incumbent Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS) Tuesday night over racially-charged remarks Hyde-Smith made during a campaign stop right before the midterm elections.During a closed-door debate between Espy and Hyde-Smith, who face a runoff election for U.S.Senate on November 27, Espy said Hyde-Smith gave their state“another black eye” when Hyde-Smith joked to a supporter:If he invited me to a public hanging,Id be on the front row."If he invited me to a public hanging, I'd be on the front row"- Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith says in Tupelo, MS after Colin Hutchinson, cattle rancher, praises her. Hyde-Smith is in a runoff on Nov 27th against Mike Espy. pic.twitter.com/0a9jOEjokr— Lamar White, Jr. (@LamarWhiteJr) November 11, 2018After the video surfaced, Hyde-Smith quickly whined that what she said had been taken out of context. There was, as yet, no humility.I referred to accepting an invitation to a speaking engagement, Hyde-Smith said in a statement Sunday. In referencing the one who invited me, I used an exaggerated expression of regard, and any attempt to turn this into a negative connotation is ridiculous.On Tuesday, Hyde-Smith attempted to downplay her remarks by insisting that her words were “twisted” and “turned into a weapon to be used against me.”Reading from a piece of paper, Hyde-Smith reluctantly said: “I certainly apologize.”Espy wasn’t buying it.“No one twisted your comments because the comments were live,” Espy rebutted. “They came out of your mouth. I don’t know what’s in your heart  but we all know what came out of your mouth, and it went viral within in the first three minutes around the world.”QUICK CLIP: Mike Espy To Hyde-Smith: "I don't know what's in your heart but we all know what came out of your mouth." #MSSen pic.twitter.com/Kzl6dJfTOq— Mike Espy (@espyforsenate) November 21, 2018Watch the whole debate below. The exchange begins at 14:30.HAPPENING NOW: Cindy Hyde-Smith faces Mike Espy in Mississippi Senate run-off election debate. https://t.co/m2S3J3VMZB https://t.co/w8ahkMI4Te— ABC News (@ABC) November 21, 2018Espy’s fiery rebuke was well-received on Twitter.Mike Espy easily won this debate. How embarrassing Cindy Hyde-Smith was tonight. Please, don't embarrass us any further, Mississippi, and send @espyforsenate to be our Senator. We need that vote in the Senate. And America will fall in love with us.— Ms Fisher (@Iwillnotfall) November 21, 2018Excellent remark by Espy.— Bee Art (@BeeArt27) November 21, 2018She really needs to sit down. What is wrong with her supporters?— Nikki (@ecosmartbydsign) November 21, 2018Yeah its funny how all her big supporters keep supporting her until shes exposed and now they all say they want their money back. Like Walmart for example— Molly K (@MollyKurzbard) November 21, 2018Thank you for being a decent human being.   I appreciate you!  — Lazaro Carreno (@lazcarr1342) November 21, 2018You have a conscience. She has an agenda.— Botocks Bollucks (@GuntherGill) November 21, 2018Go Mike Espy!!You are the ONLY CHOICE for Mississippi!!— Geo (@Love747Jets) November 21, 2018Hyde-Smith’s forced apology was not.Out of the heart the mouth speaks. (Luke 6:45)— Donna writes (@CelebrityEditor) November 21, 2018If you watch the clip Cindy Hyde Smith is reading her defense off of a piece of paper.  Anyway, the fact that she wont apologize shows the contempt she has for decency and honor and its made more insulting that she has to read her non-apology defense off a piece of paper.— Mattchuto (@bumpywoot) November 21, 2018The fact that Hyde-Smith had a pre-written apology came across as disingenuous.Her response to the hanging comments was a written response, she read it. I believe she had access to the questions and apparently brought her notes with her to the stage. I understand she wanted a binder. One thing is certain – if Trump says jump, she most certainly will.— KL Cole (@kl_cole) November 21, 2018she had to read her "apology" off a queue card, after she twisted what she said in knots, talking about her comment being twisted around.LOLOL—   Kas S   (@KASonaBike) November 21, 2018Her joking about lynching is grave, hideous and inexcusable.— sherie' franssen (@sheriemary) November 21, 2018How the hell can anyone twist a comment, especially a comment rhat has the words "public hanging"… what the hell did you mean? Please explain @cindyhydesmith pic.twitter.com/OZURaF3uqb— griznation23 (@vbadbear) November 21, 2018Never in my life have I heard anyone make references to public hangings or lynchings in jest. Who would do such a thing?? Good people of Mississippi: I want to believe you would vote for superior representation & leadership in the U.S. Senate by voting for Mike Espy. #MSSen— Stephanie Kennedy (@WordswithSteph) November 21, 2018Joking or not, cindy showed her true colors. Anybody voting for her will be undeniably ignorant.— Tristan Knight (@TristanTKnight) November 21, 2018Espy continued:“It’s caused our state harm. It’s given our state another black eye that we don’t need. It’s just rejuvenatedold stereotypes that we don’t need anymore. We have companies like Walmart that wrote to you today and told you that your comments did not reflect the values of that company.”When asked to reply, Hyde-Smith blamed Espy for the backlash sparked by her public hanging gaffe and then doubled-down on her words being “twisted.”	Liberal
The Democratic party just broke the record for the largestnational lead in raw House votesfor either party in the history of midterm elections, according to Dave Wasserman, the U.S. House editor for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.Dems' national lead in raw House votes – now 8.8 million – just broke the record for largest for either party in the history of midterm elections (previous record was 8.7 million set by Dems in 1974). https://t.co/0pm7oW1pFE— Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict) November 21, 2018The previous record was 8.7 million votes set by Democrats in 1974, the year former President Richard Nixon after being implicated in the Watergate scandal.Democrats received 59,226,352 votes in the midterm elections, 53.1 percent of all votes cast. Republicans, by comparison, received 50,380,560 votes, or 45.2 percent of all votes cast.Democrats have picked up a net total of38 House seats. Most recently,Ben McAdams, the Democratic mayor of Salt Lake County, defeated Republican Representative Mia Lovein Utah’s 4th Congressional District.McAdams beat Love by fewer than 700 votes, just above the margin required to trigger a recount. Several races remain undecided.In the wake of the election, media outlets reported that the long prognosticated “blue wave” had not actually happened, a perception Democratic opponents immediately latched onto.Reminder of the day: Obama lost 63 seats in the house and 6 seats in the Senate in the 2010 midterms.  Trump gained Senate seats and Democrats barely won the house. That blue wave was a big fat lie. #ElectionNight— Oaktown  Unfiltered (@hrtablaze) November 7, 2018However, the data (available in this DOC from Cook Political Report) indicates that the Democratic influence across the nation resonated with voters, signaling a strong rebuke of President Donald Trump and his administration.“There were alotof uncalled races on election night,” wrote Ed Kilgore inNew York Magazine‘s analysis. “That occurred partly because many contests were close, but also because of two crosscutting phenomena that combined to slow the count in many places: Democratic-supported proliferation of last-minute voting opportunities, and Republican-supported restrictions that added to the number of unresolved provisional ballots.”Kilgore points out that “California stood out as a megastate that recently decided toallow mail ballots postmarked by Election Dayto be counted later, which meant that over a third of the votes were uncounted on election night.”“The fact that late-counted ballots tended to trend Democratic almost everywhere (even if it wasnt enough to change the outcome in several key races) made the final map bluer than it looked on election night,” he added.President Trump, however, claims that Republicansdefied history in the midterms by maintaining control of the Senate and scoring a “slew” of governorships.It was a big day yesterday, Trump said immediately after Election Day.The Republican Party defied history to expand our Senate majority while significantly beating expectations in the House. It was very close to a complete victory.”	Liberal
Though Republican officials usually fall in lockstep with President Donald Trump, there have been some occasions that even they couldn’t feasibly defend the President, like when he took up for Nazis marching in Charlottesville or when he publicly sided with Russian President Vladimir Putin over his own intelligence officials.Most recently, they now appear to be breaking from Trump’s opinion on the brutal murder ofWashington Postwriter Jamal Khashoggia murder the Central Intelligence Agency concludes was performed under orders from Saudi Crown PrinceMohammad Bin Salman Al Saud, whom Khashoggi reported on unfavorably.Republican rebukes come in reaction to the President’s recent statement in which he doubts that Al Saud is to blame, cites Saudi Arabia’s allyship, and acknowledges that Saudi Arabia’s oil contributions played a factor in his decision.The statementladen with exclamation pointsreads, in part:“King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman vigorously deny any knowledge of the planning or execution of the murder of Mr. Khashoggi. Our intelligence agencies continue to assess all information, but it could very well be that the Crown Prince had knowledge of this tragic event  maybe he did and maybe he didn’t!…After the United States, Saudi Arabia is the largest oil producing nation in the world. They have worked closely with us and have been very responsive to my requests to keeping oil prices at reasonable levels  so important for the world. As President of the United States I intend to ensure that, in a very dangerous world, America is pursuing its national interests and vigorously contesting countries that wish to do us harm. Very simply it is called America First!”Republican lawmakers disagreed.I never thought Id see the day a White House would moonlight as a public relations firm for the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia. https://t.co/MQ4JsoQtqk— Senator Bob Corker (@SenBobCorker) November 20, 2018Great allies dont plot the murder of journalists, Mr. President. Great allies dont lure their own citizens into a trap, then kill them.  https://t.co/PY6qOOIOI6— Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) November 20, 2018Our foreign policy must be about promoting our national interests. It is in our natl interest to defend human rights.HR violations lead to mass migration, help extremism flourish & often result in new governments hostile towards the U.S. because we supported their oppressors.— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) November 20, 2018The President indicates that Saudi Arabia is the lesser two evils compared to Iran and so the U.S. won't punish Saudi Arabia for the brutal killing and dismemberment of a dissident journalist in their consulate. I disagree. https://t.co/0kr2kIyT0P— Rand Paul (@DrRandPaul) November 20, 2018 Senator Paul added:Im pretty sure this statement is Saudi Arabia First, not America First. Im also pretty sure John Bolton wrote it.”Even one of the President’s most steadfast allies in the senateLindsey Graham (R-SC) disparaged the statementalbeit not without blaming former President Barack Obama first.Time and time again President Obama chose to look the other way as Iran took increasingly provocative actions.  Each time it led to even worse Iranian behavior and created even larger problems for the future.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) November 20, 2018Likewise, it is not in our national security interests to look the other way when it comes to the brutal murder of Mr. Jamal #Khashoggi.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) November 20, 2018While Saudi Arabia is a strategic ally, the behavior of the Crown Prince  in multiple ways  has shown disrespect for the relationship and made him, in my view, beyond toxic.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) November 20, 2018I fully realize we have to deal with bad actors and imperfect situations on the international stage.  However, when we lose our moral voice, we lose our strongest asset.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) November 20, 2018So if even many of the most Right Wing Republican Senators are outraged over Trump’s statement on Khashoggi, why on earth would the President make it then?	Liberal
In an unusual move, on Tuesday President Donald Trump issued an official statement, titled “StatementfromPresident Donald J. Trump on Standing with Saudi Arabia” (and subtitled “America First!”) in which he announced his solidarity with Saudi Arabia in the face of mounting evidence that the Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman, ordered the murder of Jamal Khashoggi:The statement read in part:“King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman vigorously deny any knowledge of the planning or execution of the murder of Mr. Khashoggi,” the president insisted. “Our intelligence agencies continue to assess all information, but it could very well be that the Crown Prince had knowledge of this tragic event — maybe he did and maybe he didn’t!”This did not sit well with many, not the least of whom was Fred Ryan, CEO and Publisher of The Washington Post, where Jamal Khashoggi was a columnist.Ryan penned a scathing rebuke of Trump’s refusal to acknowledge that Khashoggi was murdered on the orders of the Crown Prince, calling it “a betrayal of long-established American values of respect for human rights and the expectation of trust and honesty in our strategic relationships.”Statement from Washington Post Publisher and CEO Fred Ryan in response to President Trump's statement today regarding the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. pic.twitter.com/JJzw9yaU6Z— Washington Post PR (@WashPostPR) November 20, 2018In his statement, Ryan spoke for many:President Trumps response to the brutal murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi is a betrayal of long-established American values of respect for human rights and the expectation of trust and honesty in our strategic relationships. He is placing personal relationships and commercial interests above American interests in his desire to continue to do business as usual with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia.”He went on:“President Trump is correct in saying the world is a very dangerous place. His surrender to this state-ordered murder will only make it more so. An innocent man, brutally slain, deserves better, as does the cause of truth and justice and human rights.”People hailed Ryan’s statement.Thank you for this, Mr. Fred Ryan. The obvious apparently isn't obvious anymore. It's on us now.—  Marc (@Marc42112172) November 20, 2018The murder was BARBARIC…the brutality was MEDIEVAL…and the mastermind gets a pass from POTUS! OMG-HELL NO! The nation of S.A. may remain an ally–but we must demand that the King allow for the prosecution of those involved including the "Prince."— TRUTH&JUSTICE (@OMETA16) November 20, 2018Trump on Tuesday afternoon insinuated the alliance between the United States and Saudi Arabia was far too valuable to be challenged.The foreign policy of the United States of America is officially for sale. My god, this is truly a low point for this president- another low point— Mairzy (@MairzyMurter) November 20, 2018U.S. knows who ordered this man's murder, and the culprit gets away scott free.— Merdies Hayes (@mrhayes1029) November 20, 2018Trump’s penchant for trusting the word of autocrats over his own intelligence agencies was in full view.The world according to Trump:  the Saudis killed 3000 Americans on 9/11. Whats one more?— daniel spencer (@dandy49) November 20, 2018America First = Trump Family Business Interests ONLY.— Marlene Green (@MarleneGreen) November 20, 2018Yes… undermining the US…. because Saudi Arabia is such a trusted ally. pic.twitter.com/wgRFmWTOEQ— DanCol (@Dcolman23) November 20, 2018Trump reiterated his solidarity with Saudi Arabia later to reporters.	Liberal
It’s nearly Thanksgiving and on Tuesday the White House held its annual turkey pardon (I know, I know, I know). But the following little tidbit makes today’s event even more ridiculous.ABC’s Alex Mallin noticed something striking; the turkey pardoned by President Donald Trump spent more time in the White House briefing room in November than Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Fun fact: This turkey has spent more time at the podium in the White House briefing room than @PressSec for the entire month of November! pic.twitter.com/9DgISxugJV— Alex Mallin (@alex_mallin) November 20, 2018The turkey, White House photographer Jabin Botsford told Philip Bump of The Washington Post, spent five minutes at the podium in the White House briefing room.Sanders – throughout the entire month of November – has spent zero time up there. None. Zilch. Bump made a graph so that the data would be easy to see.The gaggleof journalists reportedly enjoyed the company of the bird.“The bird quickly put the members of the press at ease, though,” wroteBump, “by treating them as theyd come to expect in that room: eyeing them skeptically, answering no questions and leaving after only a few minutes.”Savage.They're both turkeys— John O'Keefe (@jokeefe) November 20, 2018"The bird quickly put the members of the press at ease, though, by treating them as theyd come to expect in that room: eyeing them skeptically, answering no questions and leaving after only a few minutes." Perfection!— Becky D (@bexrousse) November 20, 2018Would prefer to see a turkey at the podium instead of Sarah Sanders. Turkey has more credibility.— Jojijojijoji (@Jojijojijoji2) November 20, 2018Sadly for Sanders, Twitter prefers the turkey.May be we should keep the turkey and get rid of the @PressSec. #JustSaying— ruthko (@ruthmkb) November 20, 2018The turkey was probably more honest as well.— Run Away (@runaway0121) November 20, 2018Fun Fact: The turkey makes more sense, and lies less.— Matt Wilkinson (@justcallmatt) November 20, 2018Yeah me too!— Alexis Ral Santos-Lozada (@AppDemography) November 20, 2018The turkey will bring more joy to more people than @PressSec will ever bring.— Don Silsby (@donsilsby) November 20, 2018That turkey is doing a great job!— Wendy Leyes (@Feldspat52) November 20, 2018and has offered more insight into the Trump administration…— President Rufus T. Firefly (@Stewey444) November 20, 2018Remember the new rules though: no tough questions and no follow-ups. The turkey does not have the time.	Liberal
Mississippi Republican Senator Cindy Hyde-Smithappointed to the position in April 2018 by GovernorPhil Bryant to replace resigning Senator Thad Cochranmade the evening news cycle steadily over the last few weeks.Hyde-Smith faces a run-off against Democratic challenger Mike EspyUnited States Secretary of Agriculture under President Bill Clinton. Espy was the first African American to hold that cabinet position and the first from the deep South.Hyde-Smith and Espy ended the 2018 midterms election with 41.5% for the GOP candidate and 40.6% for her Democratic rival, to force the run-off election to be held on November 27, 2018.But the pending return to the polls is not why Hyde-Smith keeps making the news. Hyde-Smith’s particular brand of humor keeps drawing national outrage.First, the incumbent Senator made what she deemed a joke about eagerly attending a lynching. Inthanking a cattle rancher for his support, the Senator said:“If he invited me to a public hanging, Id be on the front row.”People found her comment distasteful, especially considering it was said by a White woman running against a Black man in Mississippi.Emmett Louis Till was lynched in Mississippi in 1955 at the age of 14, after being accused of offending a white woman in her family’s grocery store.Then Hyde-Smith joked about voter suppression being a great idea. Given the lawsuits and charges of voter suppression in the 2018 midterms, her second joke also fell flat.Now some of Hyde-Smith’s campaign contributors are not laughing. They even asked for their money back.Walmart, donor of $2,000 to Hyde-Smith’s campaign, announced their decision on Twitter in response to a post by Will and Grace actress Debra Messing, stated:“Hi Debra. Completely understand your concern. Sen. Hyde-Smiths recent comments clearly do not reflect the values of our company and associates. As a result, we are withdrawing our support and requesting a refund of all campaign donations.”Hi Debra. Completely understand your concern. Sen. Hyde-Smiths recent comments clearly do not reflect the values of our company and associates. As a result, weare withdrawing our support and requesting a refund of all campaign donations. Walmart (@Walmart) November 20, 2018Walmart asks GOP Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith for campaign donation back because of outrage over “hanging” comments. https://t.co/FbxRJG3WvE CNBC (@CNBC) November 20, 2018 Walmart was not alone in their desire to distance themselves from Hyde-Smith and her recent remarks. Railroad company Union Pacific, defense contractor Leidos$5,000 campaign donors and manufacturer Boston Scientifica $2,500 donoralso asked for refunds.Union Pacific also made their stance clear on Twitter. They stated:“Union Pacific in no way, shape or form condones or supports divisive or perceived to be divisive statements. Our contribution was mailed prior to Hyde-Smith’s statement being made public. Union Pacific requested a refund of our donation yesterday.”Union Pacific in no way, shape or form condones or supports divisive or perceived to be divisive statements. Our contribution was mailed prior to Hyde-Smith’s statement being made public. Union Pacific requested a refund of our donation yesterday. Union Pacific (@UnionPacific) November 20, 2018Hyde-Smith refused to apologize for either remark.These are all of the Cindy Hyde-Smith quotes about her “public hanging” commentsOOMPH.https://t.co/jh3ewzh7Zl pic.twitter.com/Wl1gAXQnRd Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) November 12, 2018As a result, she found little sympathy online.	Liberal
A US District Court in California foiled President Donald Trump’s plan to use executive orders and presidential proclamations to override immigration legislation, at least temporarily. The President previously claimed he could use his powers to override even the US Constitution despite critics stating otherwise, however the court ruled otherwise.In early November, Trump signed a proclamation restricting migrants abilities to request asylum. However asylum is defined by existing law and several groupsincluding 12 Hondurans traveling with the migrant caravan from their home countrytook the Trump administration to court over the new rules.US District Court Judge Jon Tigar sided with the plaintiffs in his ruling. In his decision, Tigar wrote:“Whatever the scope of the President’s authority, he may not rewrite the immigration laws to impose a condition that Congress has expressly forbidden.”The judge added:“Asylum seekers will be put at increased risk of violence and other harms at the border, and many will be deprived of meritorious asylum claims. The government offers nothing in support of the new rule that outweighs the need to avoid these harms.”NEW: A federal judge in California has temporarily blocked the Trump administration from enforcing new limits on who can apply for asylum — the TRO will be in effect until Dec. 19 https://t.co/nOGTYtVX5n pic.twitter.com/70HQ1bHGIm Zoe Tillman (@ZoeTillman) November 20, 2018??Late last night, a federal court temporarily blocked President Trumps asylum ban as our challenge moves forward.This ban is illegal and would put peoples lives in danger. Blocking it is a critical step in fighting the administrations attacks on asylum seekers. ACLU (@ACLU) November 20, 2018The ruling marks yet another loss for the Trump administration in court, where members of his administration and the President himself have been taken to task for overstepping the authority of the executive branch as defined by the US Constitution.Trump tried to claim the migrant caravan that began in Honduras, heading for the United States to seek either immigration or asylum, posed a serious national security risk allowing the executive branch to override Congress. But Judge Tigar disagreed with both the Trump administration’s characterization of the caravan and the scope of presidential authority.The Department of Homeland Securitydefended the President’s order, calling it “lawful and appropriate” for an asylum system they characterize as “broken” and “being abused by tens of thousands of meritless claims every year.”It is unclear if the Trump administration will appeal the ruling.The looming threat of the migrant caravan was a constant topic leading up to the 2018 midterm elections. Trump’s order came before the election as well.But since the midterms ended, talk of the caravan stopped coming from the White House and Fox News. Critics accused the President, the GOP and Fox News of fearmongeringwith outrageous false claims about the caravanleading up to the midterm elections.Conservatives did not take the news well.	Liberal
Representative Seth Moulton (D-MA) received pushback from supporters of Representative Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and her bid for Speaker of the House. Moulton, who has said the House needs “new leadership”now that Democrats have regained control of the chamber in the wake of the midterm elections, was greeted by constituents shouted and interrupted him during a town hall meeting in his district.Moulton’s critics say that his opposition to Pelosi is a product of ageism and sexism. Dozens of people at theAmesbury Town Hall shouted at him when he insisted that the “majority of Democrats want this change.” Moulton also compared ousting Pelosi to ousting Margaret Thatcher, the former British prime minister and so-called “Iron Lady” whose tenureand legacy is still the subject of heated debate.OH MY GOD SETH MOULTON JUST COMPARED OUSTING NANCY PELOSI TO OUSTING MARGARET THATCHER pic.twitter.com/8T2lLRttTu— Brett Banditelli (@banditelli) November 20, 2018Some protesters “held signs that were green on one side and red on the other. When Moulton or another attendee said something they didnt like, the protesters held up the red signs to signal disagreement,” according to a report fromPolitico.Im at a Rep. Seth Moulton town hall in Amesbury where some constituents are protesting his opposition to Nancy Pelosi for Speaker #mapoli pic.twitter.com/drWpybYSKl— Stephanie Murray (@StephMurr_Jour) November 19, 2018This election was a call for change, Moulton told reporters after the town hall. I think if our party answers that call, that call for change with the amazing victories we had across this country, by just saying were going to reinstall the same status quo leadership weve had since 2006, for over 10 years, I dont think were answering the call of the American people.Moulton was criticized for saying that the birth of his daughter 35 days ago inspired him to challenge Pelosi.To recap, @sethmoulton – after comparing Nancy Pelosi to … checks notes … Margaret Thatcher – tells his angry #MA06 constituents that his infant daughter inspired him to attack most accomplished woman in American legislative history.That went well, Seth!#FiveWhiteGuys— Tom Watson (@tomwatson) November 20, 2018Congrats to Rep. @sethmoulton on new fatherhood. Also, a reminder that he opposed @NancyPelosis leadership bid in 2016. https://t.co/OnUYooctbj— Kimberly Atkins (@KimberlyEAtkins) November 20, 2018	Liberal
From his taxes to Trump University, it’s no secret that President Donald Trump’s name is on as many scams as it is on buildings, but a newly popular swindle touted by some of his supporters has left no head unscratched.As a new report from the Daily Beastreveals, anumber of Trump supporters are investing thousands of dollars in the Dinar. Over years of tumult, the Iraqi currency has dropped in value to around one-tenth of the U.S. penny. Yet these investors believe that the Dinar’s value will increase to its $3 value from before the First World War, turning thousands of dollars down the drain into millions in the bank.Though the Dinar scam has been around for decades, its associations with Trump skyrocketed around the time of his presidential campaign. Some investors also cite a pledge he made in 2017, in which he said all currencies would be on an “even level.” Despite the fact that Trump was referring to unequal trade with China, many supporters took this as a sign that the Dinar’s value could go up.Some insist that Trump has invested in it himself, to great returns.Though Trump is virtually powerless to increase the value of a foreign country’s currency, his supporters are still expecting him to deliver on a promise he never actually made.@realDonaldTrump Mr. President,  i know you're a business man above all else.  You can balance the American budget, and save an American generation if you will only stabilize the Iraqi dinar— Betty J Harris (@BettyJHarris3) January 2, 2018Bring all those $$$ trillions back home! Spread them all over the Land. Revalue the New Iraqi Dinar and cash will rain over our treasury vaults. pic.twitter.com/UiX2PkUtrN— One Deplorable (@Deplorables4U) June 8, 2018Love you Mr. Trump , I have a idea that will pay for debt of USA  overnight!  No Joke , force Iraq and IMF to revalue the Dinar prewar.— DJ Daly (@DJDaly4) December 23, 2017MR TRUMP. I really admire you.. you have done  a positive. political impact on the American People In such a short time.. please help us with this RV..  get the credit you deserve ..the people WILL.  know you helped us !!!!  Today— Leticia Rodriguez (@Leticia05741952) December 27, 2017President Trump we stand with you in your commitment to make America greater than it has ever been. We are your peaceful warriors. Give us the financial tools we need to support your efforts.— Carol Adler (@CarolAdler) December 27, 2017The devotion of these followers has befuddled nearly everyone.MAGA'ers sinking their life savings into the Iraqi currency because they think Trump will magically make it worth 3000 times more overnight is the most MAGA thing you'll read about today. https://t.co/ZJZyWoM7Qa— P Resists (@4everNeverTrump) November 20, 2018It's not that we're dumber than we used to be, it's that stupidity is now validated by the powerful and the gullible can congregate with their fellow marks online. https://t.co/J0TX4RnymI— Greg Spenchian (@GregSpenchian) November 20, 2018This article would be insanely hilarious if it wasn't so insanely depressing.Pro-readhttps://t.co/atgEhQSGZJ— Philip Armstrong (@SuperCooltendo) November 20, 2018Despite there being no substantiation that Trump himself has invested in the Dinar, the carefully constructed image of him being a successful businessman has given these supporters faith that he will make them rich.	Liberal
On Monday, it was reported that Ivanka Trump sent hundreds of e-mails using a private e-mail address for official government business. As one might expect, people were incredulous, disbelieving that somehow, after the 2016 election, that Ivanka didn’t know that that was against government regulations.Monday night, Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) went on CNN to try to defend the Ivanka’s actions, making the case that her use of a private email address was far different from Hillary’s, and he was immediately shot down.After guest Bakari Sellers explained how “lock her up” and “crooked Hillary” were cornerstones of President Donald Trump’s campaign based on Clinton’s own use of private email, Santorum mused that the two scenarios are in no way similar.To sort of ignore the obvious differences here is a little hypocritical. Hillary Clinton went out and established her own server in full knowledge that what she was doing was wrong, Santorum said. Clinton “was a political person with political aspirations who was doing things in her own interest as a political figure.”Santorum falsely claimed Ms. Trump “is not a political figure” (she’s a senior White House advisor), and that “she was no the Secretary of State dealing with a wide variety of very sensitive and classified information, even information that’s not classified but sensitive in dealing with our allies and foes.”Chris Cuomo was not having it:“She’s a senior advisor, Hillary didn’t set up the server, it was set up by her husband before, and Comey had to go back and say that the problem wasn’t that she was trafficking in classified information.”Sellers took on Santorum as well:“No, it’s not different. What’s the difference between, if Hillary was using her own homebrewed server versus Ivanka Trump using Yahoo, AOL or Gmail, we need to know what that is, we need to figure out if she was compromised or not, she was communicating with high-level cabinet officials.”Watch the full exchange below:Santorum’s attempt to explain away Ivanka’s use of private email did not go well on Twitter either.He struggles to be coherent…and relevant— Jim Cirilli (@jjc101164) November 20, 2018Old sweater boy is out of touch as usual. Nausea.— Erin Wilson (@Jaxpuddy) November 20, 2018Old sweater boy is out of touch as usual. Nausea.— Erin Wilson (@Jaxpuddy) November 20, 2018Santorum’s analysis, according to Twitter, is “pointless.”Rick Santorum has not been in an elected position for over a decade. It would be like asking Gerald Ford for his opinions on the first Bush Administration. Totally pointless.—    (@AGoodStoic) November 20, 2018I don't even know why this guy is given the time of day.— sme (@47nrn20) November 20, 2018“Ivanka is focused on family leave policy,” Santorum said.Theres a big difference between what Hillary Clinton, Secretary of State, was doing and what Ivanka Trump is accused of.The biggest difference here is that Hillary Clinton was confirmed 94-2 by the Senate for her post, while Ivanka came with the place.— Todd Grady (@MadCossackMC) November 20, 2018Cuomo pointed out that Ms. Trump is a senior advisor to the president and that Clinton’s server had been set up by her husband, former President Bill Clinton, noting that classified information was never knowingly trafficked through Clinton’s personal email.Rick Santorum just tiptoed right up to the edge of suggesting that Ivanka was just a coffee girl.— mish (@mish) November 20, 2018Santorum's wrong.  Ivanka Trump has been used by her DJT & his administration as both a liaison & an ambassador whenever she visits different countries on business & uses the Trump name & brand. Her email abuses are absolutely worth investigating.#IvankasEmails #EmailGate #Ivanka— Frost-Barnes (@FrostBarnes) November 20, 2018Sellers said if government officials are going to use private email accounts, we “should know about it,” but the hypocrisy from the right is ridiculous. Trump’s children “have security clearances,” Sellers said, “and they should know that having a private email server is a violation of the law.”This is going to be fun to watch! She didnt know the rules? Her daddy ran his whole campaign on this!— Barb K. Berns (@BarbBerns) November 20, 2018“So to say that Ivanka Trump doesn’t know or is ignorant of policy, the perfect example is Hillary Clinton,” Sellars said, adding that claiming Ms. Trump “didn’t know” is “intellectually dishonest.”Hypocrite. Like the rest of the GOP.— Barbara McCullough (@bizzylady2) November 20, 2018When pressed on whether there should be an investigation, Santorum said no, unless there is evidence of classified or sensitive information being shared.	Liberal
Ivanka Trump sent hundreds of emails from personal her personal email address to perform government business in 2017,many of them in violation of federal records rules, according to individuals familiar with a White House investigation of her correspondence.When questioned about her use of private email, Ivanka Trump, said individuals with knowledge of her reaction to the investigation, claimed she was not familiar with some details of the rules, adding that she made sure that emails pertaining to government business, which she sent using a private email account with a domain she shares with her husband, Jared Kushner, were archived.Ivanka Trump’s father, President Donald Trump, before, during and since the 2016 presidential election made Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server a primary focus. The topic and the phrase “Lock her up!” has become a rallying cry for many who regard Clinton as untrustworthy. The president has often referred to Clinton as “Crooked Hillary” on Twitter and during interviews. It could be argued that the president built much of his political legitimacy on his opponent’s use of a private email server.Her reaction has left many crying foul; they further accused her and the Trump administration of hypocrisy.Because they never actually cared about Hillary Clinton's "email problem." It was all fake outrage. https://t.co/zcv0C913lT— Anne Applebaum (@anneapplebaum) November 20, 2018So Ivanka Trump is guilty of precisely the same misdemeanour for which her father and his supporters insisted Hilary Clinton should be jailed. And the media still hasn't worked out how to process the unprecedented scale of his hypocrisy and corruption.— James O'Brien (@mrjamesob) November 20, 2018It looks like Ivanka is guilty of a similar wrongdoing Trump demanded Hillary was "locked up" for in 2016. This is government by hypocrisy on an unprecedented scale. https://t.co/UymIIELxdi— David Lammy (@DavidLammy) November 20, 2018What scares me is not that the White House won't see the hypocrisy of #IvankasEmails, but that people I know don't.— Amy McGuire  (@amyTmcg) November 20, 2018You cant make this stuff up. Not after that gang did the Lock Her Up! chant against Hillary for two solid years so Ivanka could become First Daughter. Above the law, just like daddy. Disgusting hardly says it.https://t.co/R9CfZWX2tT— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) November 19, 2018#IvankasEmails  The whole Ivanka email situation just reflects the utter incompetence of the Trump administration in actually administering anything. The sloppy practices that characterized the mom-and-pop real estate shop don't work for running the country.— Kurt Schwitters (@Schwitters_News) November 20, 2018The White House referred requests for comment toAbbe Lowell, Ivanka Trumps attorney and ethics counsel.Peter Mirijanian, a spokesman for Lowell, acknowledged that Ivanka Trumpoccasionally used her private email before she was briefed on the rules. He stressed, however, that none of her emailsshe discussed politics and official government business fewer than 100 timescontained classified information.“While transitioning into government, after she was given an official account but until the White House provided her the same guidance they had given others who started before she did, Ms. Trump sometimes used her personal account, almost always for logistics and scheduling concerning her family, he said in a statement.Mirijanian said Ivanka Trump turned over all government-related emails so they could be be archived in compliance with federal records rules. He said that she never used a private email server in her home or office, saying:Ms. Trump did not create a private server in her house or office, no classified information was ever included, the account was never transferred at Trump Organization, and no emails were ever deleted.”Ivanka Trump’s use of private email after Austin Evers,executive director of the liberal watchdog group American Oversight, filed records requests. He cast doubt on her explanation that she was not aware of the rules regarding government officials’ use of private email.Theres the obvious hypocrisy that her father ran on the misuse of personal email as a central tenet of his campaign, Evers said. There is no reasonable suggestion that she didnt know better. Clearly everyone joining the Trump administration should have been on high alert about personal email use.	Liberal
At the height of the massive wildfire in California that killed over 70 people and destroyed countless lives, President Donald Trump shocked the nation by blaming…California. The president said that a lack of adequate forest management created dry conditions that exacerbated what has now become the largest wildfire in California’s history. The vast majority of California’s public forests are managed by the federal government and these fires spread in populated urban areas as well.Nevertheless, in a harrowing display of consistency, the Trump administration is doubling down on the erroneous claimwith a new scapegoat to boot.Trump’s Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke, echoed Trump’s sentiments that poor forest management is to blame for the wildfires.And who’s to blame for the so-called poor management?If you ask Ryan Zinke, it’s the environmentalist movement, with Zinke saying on a radio show for the far-Right Breitbart:I will lay this on the foot of those environmental radicals that have prevented us from managing the forests for years and, you know what, this is on them…The president is absolutely right. This is as much about mismanagement over time.”The claim is that environmentalists fought for forests to grow uninterrupted and unmonitored, which created prime conditions for the fire. It should be noted thatZinke himself used $39,000 of wildfire funds for a helicopter tour that flew over Nevada and was completely unrelated to forest fires.Twitter thought his misplaced blame on “environmental radicals” was ludicrous.Hey Zink, heres one you didnt think of! Those environmentalists diverting all those California rivers into the sea are what is making the sea levels rise! #FakeClimateChange— Charley (@Charley21718460) November 19, 2018If climate change is to blame, why aren't well manicured parks burning to the ground by the day?— John Johnson (@johnson_johnnie) November 19, 2018Doubling-down on willful ignorance. #MAGA— Tommy Tweets (@tstweetingagain) November 19, 2018The ignorance and lack of any pertinent knowledge is staggering in the whole administration does any one know who is actually running the country because it is not apparent that anyone knows anything but tiwingvthe orange line— Files5 (@DaveFiles5) November 19, 2018Environmental radicals excuses and interesting names. Who exactly are these radicals? Are they lighting these fires. Are they also causing the mud slides and the drought? Just cant trust these radicals. We should give them rakes and let them clean up the forest.— Meg Sullivan (@hopperlassie) November 19, 2018As some pointed out, denying that steps must be taken to minimize the damage wrought by climate change is the more radical position.This is projection if Ive ever seen it.Thing is, climate deniers are the radicals. A heavy majority of Americans believe in climate change and think we should address it with green solutions.Ryan Zinke is the radical. He should not have his position. https://t.co/F9qMXeZSey— Jacob Baum  (@JacobAndrewBaum) November 19, 2018Zinke is the "environmental radical"— Gneiss2MeatYew (@Gneiss2MeatYew) November 19, 2018Zinke’s comments, to many, indicate what’s been a running theme of the Trump administration as a whole: He’s ethically questionable and woefully unqualified.	Liberal
The White House on Monday wrote to CNN’s Jim Acosta to inform him that they would be reinstating his “hard pass” to grant him access to the White House press events, and also indicated that it would impose four new rules on all White House correspondents.“Having received a formal reply from your counsel to our letter of November 16, we have made a final determination in this process: your hard pass is restored,” the White House wrote to Acosta. “Should you refuse to follow these rules in the future, we will take action in accordance with the rules set forth above. The President is aware of this decision and concurs.”A federal judge issued a temporary restraining order against the administration on Friday, forcing the White House to reinstate Acosta’s hard press pass.In their threatening letter to Acosta, the White House laid out restrictive new regulations to limit journalists’ ability to question the administration.The guidelines are a warning to reporters that if they start asking questions the administration does not like, or if more than one question is asked at a time, reporters could have their press passes revoked.The new rules are as follows:Per pool, White House lays out rules for reporters to abide by during press conferences or risk having hard passes revoked – pic.twitter.com/Fllc7PGTvj— Eliana Johnson (@elianayjohnson) November 19, 2018In a follow-up statement, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders cautioned that further restrictions may be implemented if journalists don’t fall in line, but emphasized that President Donald Trump supports the First Amendment which guarantees a free press.“The White House’s interaction with the press is, and generally should be, subject to a natural give-and-take,” Sanders said. “President Trump believes strongly in the First Amendment, and a free press and is the most accessible President in modern history. It would be a great loss for all if, instead of relying on the professionalism of White House journalists, we were compelled to devise a lengthy and detailed code of conduct for White House events.”Journalists are not pleased about being stifled.So, out of their Acosta nonsense, the White House has made it a punishable violation for anyone to say could you please address the specific question I asked, could you please provide an example, or thats actually not true without their permission? https://t.co/mub4FYH9tx— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 19, 2018This has basically been standard procedure – dont hog the mic, dont ask a bunch of questions if the president wants to move on – but there hasnt been a rule saying that asking a second question they didnt approve is punishable by being kicked out of the White House forever.— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 19, 2018And this goes to show that at least when it comes to the media, this White House is all in favor of new regulations. pic.twitter.com/ZQXx5PWlD6— ErikWemple (@ErikWemple) November 19, 2018Thats the point.— Marite Rodriguez (@MariteRodz) November 19, 2018Holy shit the new rules for press conferences at the White House are INSANE pic.twitter.com/xzL6bHCRed— Zack Bornstein (@ZackBornstein) November 19, 2018People understandably have questions.Where in the Constitution does it say "Press freedom means only one question per reporter"? @ConstitutionCtr #1stAmendment #FreedomOfThePress— SteveBrant (@SteveBrant) November 19, 2018I guess we'll have to wait for the rulemaking notice in the Federal Register for that legitimate point. — ErikWemple (@ErikWemple) November 19, 2018And these rules are "decorum." Do they apply to the White House staff as well as the Press Corps?— Anita Warren (@AnitaWarren2) November 19, 2018Heres a better rule: How about they actually answer questions instead of divert and insult?— Drew McQuade (@creekmud) November 19, 2018How is this "the Free Press" — FunInMia (@FunInMia) November 19, 2018What is the point of carrying the presser live given these ridiculous rules??— Sam (@leumaSAa) November 19, 2018How about nobody will speak until the previous question has been answered fully— J (@RationallyMagic) November 19, 2018Is there anything in there about the White House showing any decorum to the press?— Marilyn Kinney (@mkinney427) November 19, 2018Does that also mean that the White House agree to actually fully answer the questions being posed?— Henrik Brameus (@blondino) November 19, 2018A single question. And if they do not answer your single question, than what?— NA4 (@hearourvoice4) November 19, 2018Seriously, can they do that?— nanner (@huntfornancy) November 19, 2018Seriously, can they do that?— nanner (@huntfornancy) November 19, 2018In an interview with Chris Wallace of Fox News on Sunday, Trump doubled-down on his dislike for Acosta and that the White House would “create rules and regulations for conduct” to curtail pushy reporters.	Liberal
The 2018 midterms saw a major change in the House of Representatives. Control of the House shifted from red to blue, with Democrats retaking control of the House for the first time since the 2010 midterm elections.But control of the House was not the only change. More women than ever before were elected to Congress in 2018 and several historic firsts occurred as well leading to a more diverse House of Representatives, more reflective of the United States population for the 116th Congress that convenes in January, 2019.As expected with new blood, some members of the Democratic side of the House were dissatisfied with the leadership at the top. California Representative Nancy Pelosi once served as Speaker of the House from 2007 until 2011, then served as House Minority Leader since then until now.Pelosi remains the only woman to ever serve as Speaker of the House.With many members-elect being progressives who campaigned on change, one might think they would push for the shift in leadership. On the contrary, the biggest push is coming from Democratic incumbents. Democratic male incumbents.Ocasio-Cortez didn’t sign the anti-Pelosi letter, but 16 men did.Ocasio-Cortez called Pelosi “the most progressive choice” for Speaker. 16 men are claiming she’s costing the party.But guess who’s going to still be positioned as the anti-Pelosi leader?Not the 16 men. Charlotte Clymer?????? (@cmclymer) November 19, 2018https://t.co/R1COnz0TxU Charlotte Clymer?????? (@cmclymer) November 19, 2018For days, the opposition to Pelosi teased a letter was forthcoming with 17 signatures of House members pledged to vote against Pelosi as Speaker of the House.Of the 17 members and incoming members of Congress who signed a letter saying they plan to vote against Pelosi, most of them are white men with quite a few representing districts in red states with solid numbers of the white working-class voters. https://t.co/nyL0BFTBI2 Eugene Scott (@Eugene_Scott) November 16, 2018But when the letter was finally released Monday, only 16 signatures were present: 14 men and two women.And two of the 16 are not even officially members or members-elect of Congress yet.BREAKING: 16 DEMS sign anti-Pelosi letter. Will it be enough to block her? pic.twitter.com/8WYiYSXgyG Scott Wong (@scottwongDC) November 19, 2018Lets look at this Anti-Pelosi letter.1. Mostly Men.2. Mostly Incumbents not new members.3. One’s partner is under investigation.4. Nancy has already wiped the floor with one of them.#Pelosi#NancyPelosi #NancyForSpeaker https://t.co/V0bo9201Za Nairn McDonald ?? (@NairnMcD) November 19, 2018 Both Anthony Brindisi of New York and Ben McAdams of Utah await final results of their bids to unseat their district’s Republican incumbent. Current projections have Brindisi ahead, but McAdams trailing. Both men signed the letter as “member-elect.”The letter reads:“We are thankful to Leader Pelosi for her years of service to our Country and to our Caucus.”“However, we also recognize that in this recent election, Democrats ran on and won on a message of change.”“Our majority came on the backs of candidates who said that they would support new leadership because voters in hard-won districts, and across the country, want to see new change in Washington.”“We promised to change the status quo, and we intend to deliver on that promise. Therefore, we are committed to voting for new leadership in both our Caucus meeting and on the House Floor.”That leaves just two members-elect of Congress on the letter: Joe Cunningham of South Carolina and Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey. Of the two, only Cunningham is new to politics.The lack of new faces and the abundance of mostly male career politicians on the letter lead some to wonder if the opposition to Pelosi was less about “new leadership” and more about personal power grabs. Did some of the signers simply want their turn in the top spot?Axios fails to note what is most notable about this #nevernancy letter – that 14 of the 16 who oppose Pelosi are men. https://t.co/UcNAGHzCkS Kim Zetter (@KimZetter) November 19, 2018So far, the opposition has not floated any names to replace Pelosi. And some have already backtracked on their commitment. Colorado Representative Ed Perlmutter, who signed the letter, told reporters keeping Pelosi but changing out other members of leadership was a “possibility.”Said Perlmutter:“Its about change. Shes not the goal. Maybe for some.”Reaction to the letter varied.	Liberal
The former director of both the CIA and National Security Agency Michael Hayden criticized President Donald Trump after the president attacked retired Admiral Bill McRaven, the former head of United States Special Forces and the man in command when U.S. Navy SEALs eliminated Osama bin Laden.Hayden slammed the president’s own counter-terror failures.“How you doing on Zawahiri, Mr. President?” he wrote, a reference toAyman Mohammed Rabie al-Zawahiri, the current leader of al-Qaeda.Bill McRaven is a naval officer and an American hero. Like the ones that gave all at Belleau Woods. You remember them, right? he added, referring tothe American troops who died at the Battle of Belleau Wood during World War I. (Trump was criticized for failing to attend a commemoration ceremony for the soldiers during his visit to France last week.)How you doing on Zawahiri, Mr President?  Abu Bakr al Baghdadi?    BillMcRaven is a naval officer and an American hero.   Like the ones that gave all at Belleau Woods.  You remember them, right? https://t.co/FrE7wjPEg3— Gen Michael Hayden (@GenMhayden) November 18, 2018Hayden is not well liked by the Trump administration; he has, in the past, referred to Trump as “disdainful and contemptuous. Earlier this year, the White House included him on a list of individuals who would possibly have their security clearances revoked.“Such access is particularly inappropriate when former officials have transitioned into highly partisan positions and seek to use real or perceived access to sensitive information to validate their political attacks,” White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at the time. “Any access granted to our nations secrets should be in furtherance of national, not personal, interests. For this reason, Ive also begun to review the more general question of the access to classified information by government officials.”.@PressSec: Any access granted to our nations secrets should be in furtherance of national not personal interest. https://t.co/QZrKVultno pic.twitter.com/n7opKnL6fJ— Fox News (@FoxNews) August 16, 2018Admiral McRaven had criticized Trump after the president dismissed him as a “Hillary Clinton fan” and an “Obama-backer” in a Fox News interview with host Chris Wallace.Wallace had brought up comments McRaven had made in 2017 about Trump’s repeated attacks on the press, calling them“perhaps the greatest threat to democracy in my lifetime.”“He’s a Hillary Clinton backer and an Obama backer. And frankly, wouldn’t it have been nice if we got Osama bin Laden a lot sooner than that?” Trump said.Trump on retired Navy SEAL Adm. Bill McRaven, who called Trump's attacks on the press "the greatest threat to democracy.""He's a Hillary Clinton backer and an Obama backer. And frankly, wouldn't it have been nice if we got Osama bin Laden a lot sooner than that?" pic.twitter.com/lyaBvC9KFd— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 18, 2018“I did not back Hillary Clinton or anyone else,” McRaven said in a statement to CNN on Sunday in response to Trump’s comments. “I am a fan of President Obama and President George W. Bush, both of whom I worked for.”Saying that he admires all presidents, “regardless of their political party, who uphold the dignity of the office and who use that office to bring the Nation together in challengingtimes,” he added:“I stand by my comment that the President’s attack on the media is the greatest threat to our democracy in my lifetime. When you undermine the people’s right to a free press and freedom of speech and expression, then you threaten the Constitution and all for which it stands.”Via @jaketapper, Ret. Admiral William McRaven's response to Trump: "I stand by my comment that the President's attack on the media is the greatest threat to our democracy in my lifetime." pic.twitter.com/iubTvPEdwp— Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) November 18, 2018	Liberal
Five Thirty-Eight Editor-In-Chief Nate Silver crunched the numbers and discovered that Democrats’ victory in the midterms is much bigger than conventional wisdom suggests.Nationwide, Democratic U.S. House candidates raked in more than 60 million votes, which Silver notes is comparable to what recent Republican presidential candidates have gained nationwide.Silver’s point: that just doesn’t happen.“Trump got 63m votes, Romney 61m, McCain 60m,” Silver tweeted Monday. “Dem votes for the House this year should be very close to that range.”Trump got 63m votes, Romney 61m, McCain 60m. Dem votes for the House this year should be very close to that range.— Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) November 18, 2018This is unprecedented, according to Silver’s analysis.“There’s not any precedent for an opposition party coming this close to matching the president’s vote total from 2 years earlier,” Silver explained. “The closest to an exception was when Democratic House candidates in 1970 got 92% of Nixon’s vote total from 1968.”There's not any precedent for an opposition party coming this close to matching the president's vote total from 2 years earlier. The closest to an exception was when Democratic House candidates in 1970 got 92% of Nixon's vote total from 1968. pic.twitter.com/NOTLQnYI9z— Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) November 18, 2018Silver argues these astounding numbers are indicative of the deep unpopularity of President Donald Trump. The other factors fueling Democrats’ momentum, Silver believes, are:“1) Trump was elected despite losing the popular vote; 2) D’s won by a big margin this year and 3) Turnout was VERY high.”Silver also said the media have yet to accept how low Trump’spoll numbers are, again emphasizing that Democrats got more than 15 million more votes in 2018 than Republicans did when they swept the 2010midterm elections.About 60 million people turned out to vote for Democrats for the House this year. That is a **crazy** number. (Republicans got 45m votes in the 2010 wave.)And this was sort of missed. Why so many stories about Trump voters in truck stops and not so many about "the resistance"?— Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) November 18, 2018Yes but thats because hes not at 47% in any aggregate.— Dan Polovina (@danpolovina) November 18, 2018Trump is less popular today than President Barack Obama was at the same point in his first term.https://twitter.com/Merz/status/1064234915288375297https://twitter.com/Merz/status/1064234915288375297But unlike Obama, Trump was never popular to begin with.https://twitter.com/Merz/status/1064234915288375297Whats most striking about Trumps approval is that he has basically never been popular whereas most presidents enjoy an extended honeymoon period. He leaned into his base straight away and hasnt really recovered.— Dan Polovina (@danpolovina) November 18, 2018He never even tried,  shameful— kjd (@kjd_kimd63) November 19, 2018People who disapprove of Trump are hopeful that the trend continues into 2020, when the presidency, the entire U.S. House, and 33 Senate seats are up for grabs.Indeed…Trump voters and the media have the impression that America likes Trump. Trump has consistently gotten the lowest approval and highest disapproval numbers ever…yet people act like he's got a mandate. We may get 70 million voters to vote this bum out in 2020.— Peter Wader (@Pksoze) November 18, 2018Fingers crossed.— JJ (@me_marco) November 18, 2018Some, however, think that Trump’s illusions about his own popularity and competence will only continue to help Democrats.	Liberal
President Donald Trump sat down with Fox News correspondent Chris Wallace on Fox News Sunday to talk about a wide range of topics. Included were some of the criticism Trump received over his attacks against the press, calling them “the enemy of the people” repeatedly and targeting certain networks in his Make America Great Again rallies.Many people spoke out about the Trump administration’s handling of the situation with CNN’s Jim Acosta, especially White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders sharing an altered video from Infowars affiliate Prison Planet to justify their actions. Since it was a major story, Wallace attempted to ask the President about it.Among those speaking out when Trump first characterized the press as “the enemy of the people” was 37 year Navy veteran, retired Admiral Bill McRaven, former head of United States Special Forces and the man in command when US Navy SEALs eliminated Osama bin Laden.In February 2017, during a speech at the University of Texas Austin, UT System Chancellor and retired Admiral Bill McRaven stated the President’sdescription of the media as “the enemy of the American people” must be challenged and “this sentiment may be the greatest threat to democracy in my lifetime.”On Sunday, Wallace tried to ask Trump about his attacks on the press, but the President continually spoke over Wallace. Finally, the veteran newsman asked:“Can I bring the bigger issue up?”After getting a yes from Trump, Wallace tried to repeat McRaven’s words, but was repeatedly interrupted by Trump. Wallace began:“Bill McRaven, retired Admiral, US Navy SEAL, former head of US Special Operations…”Trump interjected:“Hillary Clinton fan.”Wallace attempted to continue where he left off, repeating:“Special Operations…”The President again interrupted, saying:“Excuse me, Hillary… Clinton… fan!”Wallaced ignored the interruption and continued:“…who lead the operations, commanded the operations that took down Saddam Hussein, and that killed Osama bin Laden says that your sentiment is the greatest threat to democracy in his lifetime.”Rather than address his own sentiments about the press and the implications regarding the First Amendment and the US Constitution, the President chose to attack Admiral McRaven and the Navy SEALs for their “failure” to kill Osama bin Laden sooner.Trump stated:“OK, hes a Hilary Clinton backer and an Obama-backer and frankly…”Wallace, interjected:“He was a Navy SEAL 37 years.”Trump continued, ignoring Wallace’s comment:“…wouldn’t it have been nice if we got Osama bin Laden a lot sooner than that? Wouldn’t it have been nice? You know, livingthink of thisliving in Pakistan, beautifully in Pakistan.”Watch the exchange here:Trump on retired Navy SEAL Adm. Bill McRaven, who called Trump’s attacks on the press “the greatest threat to democracy.”“He’s a Hillary Clinton backer and an Obama backer. And frankly, wouldn’t it have been nice if we got Osama bin Laden a lot sooner than that?” pic.twitter.com/lyaBvC9KFd Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 18, 2018To summarize, Trump has attacked the President who ordered the bin Laden operation, taken away the security clearance of the WH official (Brennan) who helped orchestrate it, and now disparaged the commander and troops who got the job done. Ben Rhodes (@brhodes) November 18, 2018Retired Admiral McRaven spoke to CNN Sunday and responded to the President’s criticism. McRaven stated:“I did not back Hillary Clinton or anyone else. I am a fan of President Obama and President George W. Bush, both of whom I worked for.”“I admire all presidents, regardless of their political party, who uphold the dignity of the office and who use that office to bring the nation together in challenging times.”“I stand by my comment that the President’s attack on the media is the greatest threat to our democracy in my lifetime. When you undermine the people’s right to a free press and freedom of speech and expression, then you threaten the Constitution and all for which it stands.”Admiral McRaven tells me: I did not back Hillary Clinton or anyone else. I am a fan of President Obama and President George W. Bush, both of whom I worked for. I admire all Presidents, regardless of their political party, who uphold the dignity of the office… 1/ https://t.co/gMjkkpLaJF Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) November 18, 20182/ … and who use that office to bring the Nation together in challenging times. I stand by my comment that the President’s attack on the media is the greatest threat to our democracy in my lifetime…. Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) November 18, 20183/… When you undermine the people’s right to a free press and freedom of speech and expression, then you threaten the Constitution and all for which it stands. Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) November 18, 20184/ Here is Admiral McRavens August Washington Post oped https://t.co/qLibIkXLW6 Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) November 18, 20185/ McRaven not only commanded the servicemembers who killed OBL, he commanded the servicemembers who captured Saddam Hussein and those who rescued Captain Phillips. He has been married for 40 years. Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) November 18, 2018The President’s attack against McRaven was not the first time Trumpwho never served in the military after getting a medical deferment during the Vietnam Warattacked a military veteran’s service record because they criticized him.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Sunday took to Twitter to ratchet up his rhetoric against Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA), the next chair of the House Intelligence Committee.Trump misspelled Schiff’s name,presumably intentionally, which to many is a signof the president’s festering angst over Schiff’s forthcoming subpoena power once Democrats take over the House in January.“So funny to see little Adam Schitt (D-CA),” Trump wrote, “talking about the fact that Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker was not approved by the Senate, but not mentioning the fact that Bob Mueller (who is highly conflicted) was not approved by the Senate!”So funny to see little Adam Schitt (D-CA) talking about the fact that Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker was not approved by the Senate, but not mentioning the fact that Bob Mueller (who is highly conflicted) was not approved by the Senate!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 18, 2018Schiff quickly fired back with a jab of his own.“Wow, Mr. President, thats a good one,” Schiff said. “Was that like your answers to Mr. Muellers questions, or did you write this one yourself?”Wow, Mr. President, thats a good one. Was that like your answers to Mr. Muellers questions, or did you write this one yourself? https://t.co/Yd27sayt7C— Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) November 18, 2018Today is the 155th anniversary of the Gettysburg Address. When it comes to discourse, Trump is no Abraham Lincoln.That pretty much sums it up.— tc (@toddcnyc) November 19, 2018Trump’s elementary attempt at wit was met with the full fury of Twitter.Once again you prove that you lack the decorum, and the mental acuity to be a leader. You consistently revert to the childish name calling attempt to insult a member of Congress. You are weak, a traitor, a liar, a cheater unworthy of the office let alone the respect.— Sarcastic Sunshine  (@DIYLifePlus) November 19, 2018Schitt- Thats about the level of discourse and argument weve come to expect from you grade 5 level- name calling in the schoolyard. Which is appropriate as it nails your emotional maturity at just about that age. So imagine how youre going to flip when your son is indicted.— Magner in the Wings (@Inthewings61) November 19, 2018The fact that this tweet is still standing, uncorrected after so many hours is almost as awful as the fact that it was written in the first place.    Have you been sharing Matt Whitaker's stash of HGH?— Marcolepsy (@Zillion29) November 19, 2018The fact that this has been left uncorrected for 24 hrs now ought to prove the mentality of this man *as well as* the sycophancy and fear of his staff.And that's a key trait of authoritarianism.— Dr Gina van Raphael (@AliaGvR) November 19, 2018@ABC @CBS @MSNBC @REUTERS @FOX @BBC @thehill @NPR @nytimes @WSJPolitics @AP let's discuss a President of the United States using his official twitter account to officially disparage a member of our government and to do it crassly. This is disgusting. @VP @Flotus #bebest ?— MizzFez (@Floor_model) November 19, 2018And for good measure, Trump is simply wrong in his tweet about Special Counsel Robert Mueller.You ignorant ass. The Constitution says that the AG has to be Senate confirmed; it doesnt say anything about the Special Council. Read it some time. Have someone read it to you while you eat your ice cream.— LeCorbusier (@lecorbu28) November 19, 2018Under the Constitution, Mueller is not a “principal officer,” in that he doesn’t answer directly to the president. Therefore, Senate approval was not required for his appointment.Mueller was twice-confirmed by the Senate as FBI Director – first in 2001 and again in 2011 – by 98-0 and 100-0.Yup; 98-0— Goodtrouble (@Goodtrouble7) November 19, 2018On the other hand, Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker, whom Trump tapped to replace Jeff Sessions, would report to the president and therefore needs to be confirmed by the Senate.This was the case made by George Conway and Neal Katyal in a New York Times editorial earlier this month.	Liberal
Hardly a week after a court order forced President Donald Trump’s administration to reestablish CNN White House Correspondent Jim Acosta’s access to the White House, the administration is threatening to revoke his credentials again as soon as the two week order expires.The White House informed Acosta and CNN of the “preliminary decision” to revoke his access through a letter, reading:We are writing to give you formal written notice that we have made a preliminary decision to suspend your hard pass due to your conduct at the Presidents November 7, 2018 press conference. The president is aware of this preliminary decision and concurs.”The letter prompted the network to ask for an emergency hearing in an effort to prolong Acosta’s credentials.The White House is threatening to take away Jim Acosta's press credentials, again. CNN filed papers this morning asking the judge to expedite the next phase of the case following Friday's temporary restraining order. Story: https://t.co/fhmrSUC1JH pic.twitter.com/80nUsITFDm— Zoe Tillman (@ZoeTillman) November 19, 2018CNN said in a statement:“The White House is continuing to violate the First and 5th Amendments of the Constitution. These actions threaten all journalists and news organizations. Jim Acosta and CNN will continue to report the news about the White House and the President.”In the letter to the network, White House Press Secretary cited Acosta’s behavior at a post-midterms press conference in which Trump berated Acosta for persisting to ask the president questions. The White House also implied in a doctored video that Acosta assaulted the White House intern who attempted to take his microphone.Americans are making it clear that the White House’s targeting of Acosta will not stand.Americas freedom of speech is under attack! We cannot let ANY President do this!— Donna Landry  (@aunteelynn) November 19, 2018Why is Trump scared of Acostas questions? What is he hiding?— Cowboy Little (@CowboyLittle) November 19, 2018Trump doubling down. It is not about Acosta, but Freedom of the Press. Trump is attacking the Press not only to influence reporting to be more favourable to him, but to distract from N Korea, no trade deal with China, farmers hurting, attacks on Vets, and GOP losses in midterms.— Stephen Cwalinski (@cwalisc) November 19, 2018Trump is scared of Acosta. He can't hide forever.— Allison Veit (@veit2coffee) November 19, 2018While Trump has frequently demonized the media and made moves against the sanctity of a free press, his ire towards CNN and Jim Acosta has been personal for a long time.	Liberal
Finland’s President Sauli Niinist contradicted President Donald Trump’s claim that he told him that “raking leaves” will prevent forest fires.Niinist said he doesn’t remember mentioning raking leaves with Trump, though he acknowledged they did discuss the forest fires currently raging in California when they met in Paris in early November.“I mentioned [to] him that Finland is a land covered by forests and we also have a good monitoring system and network,” Niinist told reporters with Finnish newspaperlta-Sanomat, noting that he said “we take care of our forests” during their conversation.Trump made the claim while visiting Paradise, California, with California Governor Jerry Brown,California Governor-elect Gavin Newsom, and Paradise Mayor Jody Jones. He was asked what could be done to prevent a similar disaster in the future.“You gotta take care of the floors. You know? The floors of the forest. Very important,” Trump responded. “I was with the President of Finland and he said, ‘We have a much different  we’re a forest nation.’ He called it a ‘forest nation.’ And they spend a lot of time on raking and cleaning and doing things, and they don’t have any problem. And when it is, it’s a very small problem.”"They spend a lot of time on raking and cleaning and doing things, and they don't have any problem": Pres. Trump suggests raking could prevent wildfires while touring a town impacted by the deadly California Camp Fire on Saturday. https://t.co/kamY4rB5wa pic.twitter.com/lXjIZL3GS4— CBS News (@CBSNews) November 19, 2018The president has been criticized for his remarks. He has denied climate change’s role in wildfires.TheCamp Firein Butte County in Northern California, has killed more than 70 people. More than 1,200 others are missing.The Woolsey Fire in Southern California has killed three people. Hundreds of thousands of acres of land have been destroyed by the fires.Comforter-in-chief adds insult, ignorance to injury.Denies climate changes role in wildfires.In Paradise, Trump actually said raking and cleaning and doing things would prevent death and devastation weve seen here in CA.76 dead. 1,276 missing. pic.twitter.com/iME3uXp7sU— Jacob Soboroff (@jacobsoboroff) November 18, 2018America,Our president thinks RAKING LEAVES will help prevent firesThat arming school teachers will help prevent shootingsGrabbing women by their pussies is okThat you need an ID TO BUY CEREAL I rest my case that Trump is the dumbest person to ever grace the White House.— romy reiner (@romyreiner) November 18, 2018California will not follow Trumps advice about anything, so we wont be raking our forests. Trump doesnt know anything about forest management but he is big on misinformation. In short, Trump is full of himself with no info on Finlands forest or much of anything else! https://t.co/iOD9PleLOz— John Dean (@JohnWDean) November 18, 2018The people of Finland are fighting back with humor, tweeting images of themselves and others raking leaves in the forest. Some have used the hashtag #haravointi, which translates to “raking” in English.Just an ordinary day in the Finnish forest ~ Ihan normipiv suomalaisessa metsss #Trump #forest #firesafety #raking #forestry #Finland #Finnish #CaliforniaFire #RakingAmericaGreatAgain #rakingtheforest #Suomi #haravointi #metspalot #rakingleaves pic.twitter.com/YOKA3D6C2K— Pyry Luminen (@pyryluminen) November 18, 2018The Finnish people have taken to their rakes en masse this weekend! Click on #haravointi (raking) to see their posts! A new Olympic sport to consider for 2020?  pic.twitter.com/KIBct9tocQ— Fiona Bateman (@fi_bateman_) November 18, 2018Greetings from #Finland! Just taking a break from raking leaves and having a lunch. We have the best rakes in the world! #RakeAmericaGreatAgain #RakeTheForest #Trump #SundayFunday #SundayMorning #rakenews #CaliforniaWildFires #ClimateChange #haravointi #metsnhoito #CampFire pic.twitter.com/gsM8CbLdSi— Kristiina Vahvaselk (@TravelWithXtina) November 18, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Friday awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to numerous distinguished individuals, including some who have already passed away.Among the recipients was the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February 2016. Scalia’s wife, Maureen, was in attendance at the ceremony to accept the award on her husband’s behalf.In his praise of Scalia, however, Trump managed to squeeze in a dirty joke about the Scalias’ sex life after reading off the names of the couple’s nine children.“You were busy, weren’t you?” Trump joked to Mrs. Scalia. “I always knew I liked him.”Watch the president’s remarks below:"I always knew I liked him" – Trump commends the late Antonin Scalia for his prowess in bed. DECORUM! pic.twitter.com/Dbq25Nrnyt— Steve Silberman (@stevesilberman) November 16, 2018The president’s crass lack of decorum was met with disgust on social media.Pig— Bishop Pickering (@MarcusMelvin19) November 16, 2018Decorum!— pragov (@pragovnj) November 16, 2018ho ly shit— alison (@sizetoosmall) November 16, 2018“Boorish,” one user said of Trump.https://t.co/rcYyJWICD0— Michael Beaton (@mhbx) November 16, 2018Does Trump know that for most people, the number of kids they have isn't proportionate to how much sex they have or nah?— Stone-Cold Local Milk Hen (@g0t_86d) November 16, 2018Maybe his mind's blown by the idea of someone having sex 9 times WITH THE SAME WIFE.— Stone-Cold Local Milk Hen (@g0t_86d) November 16, 2018He's so gross.— michele collins (@michele5411) November 16, 2018Our POTUS is essentially a cheap wedding emcee.— AnonyMoose (@DonnieTheCon) November 16, 2018Is this what he means by decorum?— GoldensRule.   (@Patti_in_CO) November 16, 2018what was that about decorum in the White House?— eafrey (@eafrey) November 16, 2018He literally cannot do anything with decorum or without being a national embarrassment. Can't this be over now?— sassygurl (@JanetLGO) November 16, 2018this is the same man who wants the press to exercise decorum at WH press conferences….— Libra63TGC (@Libra1963TGC) November 16, 2018Trumps comment a about  Scalia  being real busy , only Trump would think a comment like that appropriate at a Medal of Honor ceremony— rmc (@Thelast_try) November 16, 2018Others said Trump’s joke represents yet another instance of embarrassment that accompanies his presidency.	Liberal
Director and producer Judd Apatow may be behind some of America’s favorite comedies, but when it comes to President Donald Trump’s treatment of the press, he’s dead serious.With the news that CNN’s White House correspondent Jim Acosta’s clearance to the White House had been restored after the reporter challenged Trump’s answers to some of his questions, the president attempted to assure Americans that he values the sanctity of a free press with the stipulation that the press must be respectful of him, saying:“We want total freedom in the pressbut you have to act with respect. Youre in the White House.”Apatow thought that was rich coming from Donald Trump, and he made sure to let us know with a tweet ruthless enough to rival the president himself.I love when the rudest cruelest man who acts like a pig all day demands that people act with respect.Doesnt he mock Gold Star families, call countries shitholes,  cheat on his wife when she just had a baby, steal from students, pretend to be his own PR guy and mock the disabled? https://t.co/OBkbBWJQFh— Judd Apatow (@JuddApatow) November 16, 2018Apatow’s statement pulled no punches and people were living for it.Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, and Yes.— Freddie the Flute (@FreddieFlute) November 16, 2018#Judd2020— Edward (@edforever) November 16, 2018You nailed it.He quantifies it as, Making America Great Again… — Megan Blanchard (@Gem0614Ginger) November 16, 2018His words led to others pointing out the numerous times the Trump White House didn’t concern itself with decorum.This guy demands respect? pic.twitter.com/4g7a5G9d67— TDL_TEXAS (@TDL_TX) November 16, 2018Speaking of decorum in the White House… pic.twitter.com/Fg6YvisvOF— Jeffrey Cohen (@MrJeff2000) November 16, 2018"There must be decorum at the White House." pic.twitter.com/RFV85MEnGC— Paul (@pablo_honey1) November 16, 2018My favorite was the tweet he sent out threatening California that he would cut off funding when our state was in the middle of the deadliest wildfire in American history. Topped only by his joking about his hair at a rally he refused to cancel the day of the Tree of Life massacre— Rebecca Riley  (@emprestheodora) November 16, 2018The revocation of Jim Acosta’s White House pass has put Donald Trump’s animus toward the press into even starker relief.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is reportedly asking advisors if Vice President Mike Pence is still loyal to him, prompting many to wonder whether the president is considering replacing Pence as his running mate in 2020.As The New York Times reports:“In recent weeks, with his electoral prospects two years from now much on his mind, Mr. Trump has focused on the person who has most publicly tethered his fortunes to him. In one conversation after another he has asked aides and advisers a pointed question:Is Mike Pence loyal?”The buzz reportedly began last week during a press conference after the midterms when Trump was asked if he planned on keeping Pence on the ticket.Mike, will you be my running mate? Trump asked Pence, who nodded affirmatively.Will you? Thank you. O.K., good, the president said. That was unexpected, but I feel very fine.But it appears Pence’s assurances aren’t enough to convince Trump that he holds the confidence of the vice president.“The president has not openly suggested dropping Mr. Pence from the ticket and picking another running mate,” the Times noted, “but the advisers say those kinds of questions usually indicate that he has grown irritated with someone.”Hogan Gidley, the White House deputy press secretary, also denied that Trump wants to drop Pence from the ticket.“The president absolutely supports the vice president,” Gidley said, “and thinks hes doing an incredible job helping to carry out the mission and policies of this administration.And while Trump has reportedly not named his preferred replacement for Pence, one name has popped up in speculation: Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley.Especially outside the White House, Nikki Haley is mentioned as someone who could take Pences place. But Haleys recent Al Smith Dinner roast was originally harsher than the version she gave.  https://t.co/wXuwZR7vl7— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) November 16, 2018I believe Nikki Haley would be a much more formidable choice for VP, which is why I hope Trump sticks with Pence, who has the personalty and charisma of a fruit fly. https://t.co/ylDoWVopsH— James Moody (@jmoody166) November 16, 2018Nikki Haley is going to be a VP first and then will run and win the Presidency. She has real world, " I know that countries leader " expierience that can't be matched and no trail of death like the Clinton 's.She's awesome.!You go gurl. ! https://t.co/ZVa36qGGxm— Mike. (@Bronxcitizen) November 16, 2018But some are skeptical.@nikkihaley is a smart lady and an astute political operator. She has plans of her own to run one day. Why would she hitch her wagon to @realDonaldTrump and have to spend 4 years kissing his ring like @VP?  She could just primary him.— Dont Doxx Me (@doxx_t) November 16, 2018The funniest thing is they think Nikki Haley will be a better choice for VP! Shes SO ambitious & wont totally be his stooge so shes wayyyyy more likely to stage a 25th Amendment type of coup!— VeniceForHillary (@VeniceForHRC) November 16, 2018I dont think @nikkihaley will become trump @VP for 2020.1. She wants to become president and being *Trumps* vp would make it very hard (like Hilary after Obama everyone looked at her as Obama 2.0) she wants to be Independent from trump.— Opnion Pundit (@OpnionPundit) November 16, 2018Haley resigned her post in October and maintains a close relationship with Trump, and nominating her as a running mate could be a tactic to help Trump with women voters.Haley, the former governor of South Carolina, is a darling of the right, though she has denied any interest in seeking nation’s highest office in 2020 – for now.Twitter loves the drama.	Liberal
Over a week after the midterm elections, President Donald Trump continues to try to sell people on the idea of it being a big win for him. On Friday, after Republicans lost another seat in the House of Representatives and are poised to lose at least two more, Trump took to Twitter.The President claimed people in the United States did not see his big win because they were not being told about it by the “fake news.” While full election results are readily available, Trump blamed the media for the lack of accolades he received.So he boosted his numbers slightly on Twitter when he posted:“People are not being told that the Republican Party is on track to pick up two seats in the U.S. Senate, and epic victory: 53 to 47. The Fake News Media only wants to speak of the House, where the Midterm results were better than other sitting Presidents.”People are not being told that the Republican Party is on track to pick up two seats in the U.S. Senate, and epic victory: 53 to 47. The Fake News Media only wants to speak of the House, where the Midterm results were better than other sitting Presidents. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 16, 2018Reactions to the President’s claim were swift.You forgot to mention that the Democrats crushed the Republicans in governorships. At least 6 Republican governors have been replaced by Democrats.Geez, what made your party so unpopular? Hint: Take a look in a mirror. JRehling (@JRehling) November 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/ixd0XTktXI Autarkh (@Autarkh) November 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/v7zxAA6AsV Autarkh (@Autarkh) November 16, 2018Nearly 40 seats lost 6 million more voted Dem If u forgot Hillarys 3 million advantage in popular vote, dems beat her margins by double digits!U lost entire counties since u professed to be on the ballot.Americans rebuked Trumpism in a message that echoed across the globe. Lauren LeB ?? (@Nem_Mrs) November 16, 2018#Lyingsackofshit & his #MobFamily! pic.twitter.com/684m8JhHdm Tami Dixon (@rockhardlady) November 16, 2018The senate GOP gain is 2% the house Democratic gain is 6.5% (and counting) Gary Granite (@gary_gymiebaby) November 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/fDqOnTBXIF Chilal (@cwyyell) November 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/PlZg2MMz5a Damian P (@Damiano__p) November 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/EKRsePTQ9M stella (@racismdestroys) November 16, 2018#CollusionAintCool #UNFIT pic.twitter.com/NNXeSiOygO The Butterfly Report … (@BFlyReport) November 16, 2018I had to check the timestamp of this tweet to make sure it’s from today because it has no basis in reality. Wow what a surprise, you’re lying again. pic.twitter.com/JfPrfAaW26 The GOP is Destroying America #BlueWave2018 ?? ?? (@wmd404) November 16, 2018People took exception to the President’s math and his assumptions.	Liberal
After federal judge Timothy J. Kelly ruled that the Trump administration should reinstate CNN reporter Jim Acosta’s press pass, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders issued a statement calling for “decorum” during White House press briefings.“Today, the court made clear that there is no absolute First Amendment right to access the White House,” Sanders said. “In response to the court, we will temporarily reinstate the reporter’s hard pass. We will also further develop rules and processes to ensure fair and orderly press conferences in the future.”“There must be decorum at the White House,” she concluded..@PressSec issues statement in response to judge ruling that White House has to reinstate CNN reporter Jim Acosta's hard pass:  Today, the court made clear that there is no absolute First Amendment right to access the White House." https://t.co/kyAJcV3Zgr pic.twitter.com/2Y7RqW1eY6— CBS News (@CBSNews) November 16, 2018Sanders’s statement left many crying foul. Many criticized both her interpretation of events and her willingness, in her capacity as press secretary, to overlook or excuse President Donald Trump’s consistent lack of decorum amid his consistent attacks on the press.There must be decorum at the White House. SO rich coming from the people who have stripped it of every last ounce of decorum. Adam Mayfield (@adamdm) November 16, 2018There must be decorum? I guess Trump should never speak at a press conference, since hes almost always the instigator and the top violator of decorum. Melen (@Mindcryme) November 16, 2018Narrator: “But that wasn’t what the court said. Not at all. Not even a little bit.” Jeanne Burch (@bulmasan) November 16, 2018Did she not understand what the judge was saying? Their brand of gaslighting is a detriment to this country. All media should correct this now. Michelle (@Michelle9647) November 16, 2018But the court didnt rule on 1st amendment. It ruled on violation of CNNs 5th amendment rights. Sarahs just trying to save face. This admin doesnt even TRY to be honest anymore. Julia R (@ibejuliagulia) November 16, 2018New Rules of Decorum Issued by White House 1.) Press must never question lies spoken by The Donald & his representatives regardless of how easily such statements can be proven false and/or harmful. It hurts his feelings and he won’t play with you anymore. Ekabecka (@Ekabecka) November 16, 2018CNN filed itslawsuiton Tuesday, saying that the White House has violated both the networks and Acostas First Amendment rights of freedom of the press and Fifth Amendment rights to due process.This morning, CNN filed a lawsuit against @realDonaldTrump and top aides. The White House has violated CNN and @Acosta's First Amendment rights of freedom of the press and Fifth Amendment rights to due process. Complaint: https://t.co/43oX6L8xA7 pic.twitter.com/RvJ0Cgh6oi— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 13, 2018The suit listsDonald J. Trump, White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly, White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications William Shine, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the United States Secret Service, Secret Service Director Randolph Alles, and Secret Service Agent John Doe as defendants.CNN argues that President Donald Trump is depriving CNN of its chief White House correspondent:Defendants have deprived Plaintiffs of their right to access the White House grounds by revoking Acostas White House credentials. Without those credentials, Acosta cannot access the White House and cannot effectively serve as a White House correspondent, thus depriving Plaintiff CNN of its chief White House correspondent.The network also argues that Acostas dismissal constitutes a direct violation of the Fifth Amendments right to due process:Defendants decision to revoke Acostas press credentials violates the Fifth Amendment right to due process.Neither the White House nor the Secret Service has provided Acosta any formal notice of the reasons for, opportunity to be heard regarding, or opportunity to challenge, the decision to revoke his hard pass.	Liberal
What scares many Republican lawmakers and pundits is not necessarily that Congresswoman Elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is the youngest woman in history to be elected to the House of Representatives. It’s that – in the campaign to represent New York’s 14th District – she unseated a 10 time centrist incumbent by running on an unabashedly progressive platform. What’s more, Ocasio-Cortez is hardly the only progressive heading to the House in January.The wave of progressives like Ayanna Pressley and Ilhan Omar elected to congress has shaken the political establishment and upended the long-held expectation that Democrats must always move with moderation to appease their far less moderate Republican counterparts. No longer insulated by this assurance, the enthusiastic reception of new progressive ideas is striking fear into many American right wing lawmakers.So who better to instill that same fear in their constituents than Fox News?The network has attempted to paint the incoming progressive leaders as radicals hell-bent on destroying America with policies like universal healthcare, expanded access to education, and environmental protection.But as Ocasio-Cortez pointed out, the ideas are much less insidious than Fox News would like them to be.Oh no! They discovered our vast conspiracy to take care of children and save the planet  pic.twitter.com/XYWXmi3Xyk— Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) November 14, 2018Some Twitter users were living for it.The radical women are the future and I LOVE it.— Jay Hernandez (@jay_hernandez) November 16, 2018I love how they call them new ideas. Nothing new about it. I appreciate how unapologetic these strong women are though!— Beth M (@bmviggy) November 16, 2018The men have screwed up the #USA long enough time to give these young , smart #woman a chance to put the country back on the tracks , after crazy #trump derails anything thats good  a new #Congress you go ladies— RKherewego (@musicman3744) November 16, 2018Without a doubt….. there are many Children-of-Republicans who find this idea downright EXCITING!  I love your tenacity! I love that you arent afraid of those old smelling white men across the isle! I love that I know that there is somebody in congress without a secret agenda!— jo (@BaffledAmerican) November 15, 2018Progressives have detailed the ample ways the United States could fund Medicare for All and expanded education, starting with a decrease in bloated defense spending and an increase in taxes on America’s wealthiest citizens. At least one reputable study has shown that overall healthcare expenditures would drop by $2 trillion by the year 2031. Not to mention, the returns of the country’s investments in creating intelligent, healthy citizens is untold.Nevertheless, some resisted.Who will be responsible to pay for free college and free health care. Where will the money come from? #Dope— Todd Fredericksen (@toddfreddie24) November 15, 2018What you havent discovered is a method of paying for it.— GlennKluthe (@GlennKluthe) November 16, 2018The ideas may be noble but it has to be paid for some how. An age old problem. The money never squares. Have you ever owned or operated a small business with employees and pay taxes?— diesel (@bigdave_diesel) November 16, 2018Fox News’ misleading use of the term “free” led many on the Right to patronize Ocasio-Cortez.Nothing is free in this life. Its going to come from somewhere lets put logic into our tweets please.— Chase Rystrom (@rystromchase) November 16, 2018Imagine thinking its actually free. Nothing is free lmao. Stupid libs, cant even dig that far down to realize nothing is free— zzzz (@BryceIzNice) November 16, 2018Ocasio-Cortez has previously said of Medicare for All:“I think at the end of the day, we see that this is not a pipe dream…Every other developed nation in the world does this. Why cant America?”Despite many doubts, when you look at the ways the government already spends taxpayers’ money, Ocasio-Cortez is right.	Liberal
The 2018 midterms may not seem like the blue wave many Democrats hoped for. Due to the failure to take the Senate, some called the midterm elections a draw.But the red to blue numbers are more significant than people realize. While only losing one Senate seat, Democrats picked up 36 seats so far in the House with three more expected to go blue for a total of 39 red to blue seats in the 116th Congress.In addition to seats in the House of Representatives, the Governor’s mansions in seven more states will be housing a Democrat in the coming year. Two more races are left to be decided leaving the potential for an even 50/50 split with 25 Republican Governors and 25 Democrats.One area where the shift is particularly evident is in traditionally Republican stronghold Orange County, California. The six congressional districts in the affluent area went four Republican and two Democrat in the 2016 election.In the 2018 midterms, the area is awash with blue. While only five of the six districts are decided as of Friday, November 16, the sixth is projected to also go to Democrat Gil Cisneros over Republican Young Kim.MSNBC’s Morning Joe shared a graphic on Twitter to illustrate the change.Congressional districts in Orange County, Calif. in 2016 and in 2018 pic.twitter.com/TWRQ1pPzS4 Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) November 16, 2018Democratic incumbents J. Luis Correa in the 46th district and Alan Lowenthal in the 47th retained their House seats. Meanwhile Democratic challengers Katie Porter in the 45th and Harley Rouda in the 48th unseated GOP incumbents Mimi Walters and Dana Rohrabacher.In the 49th district, newcomers faced off with Democrat Mike Levin beating Republican Diane Harkey. And as mentioned earlier, fellow Democratic newcomer Gil Cisneros is projected to defeat GOP newbie Young Kim in the 39th.So what caused the shift?Many voters cited the GOP being complicit in the actions and rhetoric of President Donald Trump. When the President attacks Californiawhich he has many times on Twitter and during his Make America Great Again rallieshe makes no exceptions nor offers any disclaimers for Republicans in the state.All Californians are painted with the same broad brush by Trump.The President’s obvious animosity toward the state bled into his reactions to the wildfires that struck California in 2017 and 2018. Trump’s lack of compassion and empathy toward victims of the fires angered many residents.People also cited the confirmation of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. Doctor Christine Blasey-Ford is a California resident.Others cited the GOP tax cuts and votes attacking the Affordable Care Act as reason to vote blue in 2018.Kavanaugh’s confirmation came from the Senate, but backlash against the Republican Party crossed over into even state and local elections.People online shared their own thoughts about the shift.	Liberal
Conservative lawyer George Conway, a frequent critic of President Donald Trump, revealed to the Skullduggerypodcast what finally made him turn on and start challenging the president.“Is there a turning point when you decided that you were ready to start tweeting and taking on the president or was it a slower evolution?” co-host Dan Klaidman asked Conway. “Is there a moment you found so appalling that you just had to speak out?”“Somebody asked me that question the other day,” Conway replied. “I think the things really that bugged me the most werethe tweets at [former Attorney General Jeff] Sessions and the Justice Department. Those things bugged me the most.”Listen to the entire Skullduggery interview below. The segment about Sessions begins at 1:19:14.NEW: Kellyanne Conways husband, George Conway, speaks out in exclusive @YahooNews interview just aired on @Morning_Joe. Wont comment on if Trump is stable, says he wouldnt support him for re-election, and calls the Presidents tweets corrosive. https://t.co/DylScOeC5W— Michael Del Moro (@MikeDelMoro) November 16, 2018Conway said that “whether you like the policies or not that Sessions follows or was most known for, he was a very faithful servant to the administration’s policies – immigration, crime, whatnot.”Shortly after taking office, Sessions recused himself from overseeing Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian election meddling and Trump’s presidential campaign’s alleged connections to the Kremlin after Sessions admitted he had contacts with Russian officials during the 2016 race.“But the fault,” Conway continued, “was the recusal thing and I never heard a coherent explanation in why he shouldn’t have recused himself.”Sessions was“trying to follow the law” in his recusal, Conway said. “He was trying in good faith to do what was right and if somebody doesn’t like it… it’s because it was contrary to somebody’s personal interest. And that’s the problem.”Trump’s frayed relationship with Sessions can be traced all the way back to the beginning of Session’s tenure as head of the Justice Department.Sessions’ recusal never sat well with the president, who often belittled Sessions for not acting as Trump’s own personal protector.In July 2017, Trump lamented that he would never have hired Sessions as AG had he known Sessions planned on recusing himself from the Russiaprobe, leaving oversight duties to Deputy AG Rod Rosenstein.Sessions should have never recused himself,” Trump complained to the New York Times, “and if he was going to recuse himself, he should have told me before he took the job and I would have picked somebody else.The chip on Trump’s shoulder toward Sessions over the recusal waxed for the remainder of Sessions’ tenure.Trump began attacking Sessions on Twitter earlier this year after rumors circulated that Trump made fun of Sessions in private, purportedly referring to him as “Mr. Magoo.”The Washington Post said I refer to Jeff Sessions as Mr. Magoo and Rod Rosenstein as Mr. Peepers. This is according to people with whom the president has spoken. There are no such people and dont know these characters…just more Fake & Disgusting News to create ill will!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018In May, Trump’s frustration with Sessions reached its zenith as Trump lashed out on social media, berating Sessions for not acting as Trump’s personal lawyer – which isn’t the job of the attorney general in the first place.Rep.Trey Gowdy, I dont think so, I think what the President is doing is expressing frustration that Attorney General Sessions should have shared these reasons for recusal before he took the job, not afterward. If I were the President and I picked someone to be the countrys….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2018Trump wrote in June that he would have picked a different AG had he known Sessions would not be overseeing the Russia investigation.The Russian Witch Hunt Hoax continues, all because Jeff Sessions didnt tell me he was going to recuse himself…I would have quickly picked someone else. So much time and money wasted, so many lives ruined…and Sessions knew better than most that there was No Collusion!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 5, 2018Trump blamed Sessions for the “rigged witch hunt” that has cast a shadow over his presidency, continuing to this day...This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018Trump also suggested Sessions was incompetent.Jeff Sessions said he wouldnt allow politics to influence him only because he doesnt understand what is happening underneath his command position. Highly conflicted Bob Mueller and his gang of 17 Angry Dems are having a field day as real corruption goes untouched. No Collusion!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 25, 2018Trump blamed Sessions for exposing two Republican Congressmen who were under investigation shortly before the midterms.	Liberal
Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith,a Mississippi Republican, has generated controversy once again after she suggested that laws that make it just a little more difficult for some college students to vote are a great idea.Video of Hyde-Smith’s remarks was uploaded to social media by blogger and journalist Lamar White Jr.“And then they remind me, that there’s a lot of liberal folks in those other schools who that maybe we don’t want to vote. Maybe we want to make it just a little more difficult. And I think that’s a great idea,” Hyde-Smith says on the tape.Correction: Video WAS taken in Starkville on 11/03, which is what I had initially reported. There was some confusion, because apparently, Sen. Hyde-Smith has a talent for saying things like this often. @GanucheauAdam— Lamar White, Jr. (@LamarWhiteJr) November 15, 2018In an email toThe Washington Post, Melissa Scallan, the spokeswoman for Hyde-Smiths campaign, said that Hyde-Smith made the comments whiletalking to four freshmen at Mississippi State University about an idea to have polling places on college campuses.“Thats what she said was a great idea, Scallan wrote. Someone pointed out that college campuses were liberal and thats when she made the joke about not wanting everyone to vote. That was a joke. The polling places on college campuses is what she said was a great idea.”She went on:“The senator absolutely is not a racist and does not support voter suppression.Hyde-Smith’s comments were swiftly condemned byDanny Blanton, the communications director forDemocrat Mike Espy, whom Hyde-Smith will face in a runoff election on November 27.For a state like Mississippi, where voting rights were obtained through sweat and blood, everyone should appreciate that this is not a laughing matter, Blanton said. Mississippians deserve a senator who represents our best qualities, not a walking stereotype who embarrasses our state.A statement from our campaign: https://t.co/wCE1UpmtUD pic.twitter.com/HkpJVd0rOw— Mike Espy (@espyforsenate) November 15, 2018Hyde-Smith’s campaign responded soon afterward, saying: “It’s ok to still have a sense of humor in America isn’t it?”The campaign added that students “enjoyed a laugh with Cindy despite out of state social media posts trying to mislead Mississippians.”Its ok to still have a sense of humor in America isnt it? These students enjoyed a laugh with Cindy despite out of state social media posts trying to mislead Mississippians. @espyforsenatehttps://t.co/dcObRfHpMi pic.twitter.com/nfOi3ifekq— Cindy Hyde-Smith (@cindyhydesmith) November 16, 2018Scallan claimed the video was “selectively edited” by members of “the liberal media.”Obviously Sen. Hyde-Smith was making a joke and clearly the video was selectively edited, Scallan said.Now the liberal media wants to talk about anything other than Mike Espys record of corruption and taking $750,000  and lying about it  from an African dictator now charged with war crimes, including murder, rape and torture. (In August 1997, Espy was indicted on charges of receiving improper gifts, including sports tickets and lodging. He wasacquitted of all 30 criminal charges in the trial the following year.)The campaign’s response did not go over well with individuals who further criticized Hyde-Smith for joking about attending a public hanging.Not if youre telling jokes about being in the front row at lynchings in the state thats lynched more black men than any other and about your endorsement of voter suppression as long as it targets democrats. You are a disgrace to this country and have no business in Congress. Andrew Wortman (@AmoneyResists) November 16, 2018This native Mississippian has a great sense of humor! We just cant find anything funny about public hangings or encouraging voter suppression at those schools! Your finding it humorous is deeply troubling!MS deserves better! #Espy4All #EspyForSenate #MSSen Deb M. #VoteEspyForSenate (@AUdebm) November 16, 2018This Mississippian doesnt think its funny when shes joking about certain universities not being able to vote. Sarah Lang (@ssdaydreamer) November 16, 2018Out of state? Joking to our youth about voter suppression is not funny. It’s yet another demonstration of your lack of leadership. We should be educating our youth on the history of voter suppression that has taken place in our state. It’s even going on now. Michael Blackstock (@_luckygecko) November 16, 2018	Liberal
Following her upset victory in the Democratic primary earlier this year, the soon-to-be Congresswoman representing New York’s 14th districtAlexandria Ocasio-Cortezhas quickly become a darling of the Democrats and one of the most notable faces of the progressive movement. A former bartender and the youngest person ever elected to congress, Ocasio-Cortez has championed economic reform and used her voice to bolster the working class.So it’s no wonder many Republican naysayers have tried to foster doubt about her intentions at every turn.Earlier on Thursday, Conservative reporter Eddie Scarry did so in a tweet, which he later deleted (screenshot is below).People were quick to mock Scarry for his ill-advised tweet.Oh my god, she's wearing a JACKET AND COAT? SCANDALOUS.Thank you for this brilliant reporting, Eddie. You're an invaluable asset.— Daniel Baryon (@apeirophobic) November 15, 2018Ocasio-Cortez's superpower is making conservatives admit that they think only rich people should have clothes and housinghttps://t.co/c10OJ8ffSL— Ken Klippenstein (@kenklippenstein) November 15, 2018HOLY SHIT A BLAZER!— CatWar2018 (@pigguface) November 15, 2018I've seen thousands of dumb tweets, but this is truly an all-timer— Scott McLaughlin (@smclaughlin9) November 15, 2018And even Ocasio-Cortez herself clapped back dropping a bit of truth on ole Eddie.If I walked into Congress wearing a sack, they would laugh & take a picture of my backside.If I walk in with my best sale-rack clothes, they laugh & take a picture of my backside.Dark hates light – thats why you tune it out.Shine bright & keep it pushing. https://t.co/mRq5wn0v9A— Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) November 15, 2018Hours after posting the tweet, he deleted it with the following disclaimer:ATTN! I posted a tweet earlier suggesting the incoming congresswoman looked well put together — ELEGANT even — despite suggestions shes struggled. The tweet was taken as something else, so Ive deleted it!— Eddie Scarry (@eScarry) November 16, 2018To which Ocasio-Cortez responded:Oh, does @eScarry think he can delete his misogyny without an apology?I dont think so. Youre a journalist – readers should know your bias. pic.twitter.com/2KJuiPsUR2— Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) November 16, 2018Scarry’s attempt at “owning” Ocasio-Cortez is not an isolated incident. The American Right has repeatedly tried to cast doubt over Ocasio-Cortez’s working-class background.Shortly after her primary victory, conservatives criticized her for saying she grew up in the Bronx when she’d moved to Westchester for a better education at around five years old. They failed to mention that she moved back to the Bronx after completing her education and the work she and her family put in to stay there. Ocasio Cortez pulled no punches in a Twitter response.Hey John,1. I didnt go to Brown or the Ivy League. I went to BU. Try Google.2. It is nice. Growing up, it was a good town for working people. My mom scrubbed toilets so I could live here & I grew up seeing how the zip code one is born in determines much of their opportunity.— Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) July 1, 20183. Your attempt to strip me of my family, my story, my home, and my identity is exemplary of how scared you are of the power of all four of those things.— Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) July 1, 2018With Scarry’s most recent tweet, Americans began asking why so many on the Right are obsessed with defaming Ocasio Cortez.y'all seem determined to make it extremely transparent how much you want her to step on you in heels— Hispanic Pixie Dream Girl (@mathewrodriguez) November 15, 2018Ive never seen conservatives as spooked by a rookie politician as you guys are by @Ocasio2018. The attempts to delegitimize, ostracize and degrade her are quite the crusade. There are other Dem up & comers you should also be scared of! Go get @BetoORourke and @KamalaHarris too!— LocalNeighborhoodProgressive (@jmt5050) November 15, 2018The fear this woman has put into the establishment is absolutely inspirational.— IdleChatter (@idlechatter91) November 15, 2018Soon, users were less concerned with defending Ocasio-Cortez and brought the reads to Scarry himself.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Wednesday made a false and utterly weird claim that people were committing voter fraud by going to their cars and changing their clothes.On Thursday,Star Warsstar and Trump critic Mark Hamill trolled Trump and his ridiculous assertion on Twitter, showing off the various outfits he used to disguise himself as he pranced around casting votes for other people (he didn’t really commit voter fraud, just so we’re clear).Hamill started by quoting Trump directly.When people get in line that have absolutely no right to vote and they go around in circles. Sometimes they go to their car, put on a different hat, put on a different shirt, come in and vote again. Nobody takes anything. Its really a disgrace whats going on.Then the 67-year-old actor revealed his secret identities.“Here’s how I voted multiple times this year (plus one from back in the day),” Hamill joked.When people get in line that have absolutely no right to vote & they go around in circles. Sometimes they go to their car, put on a different hat, put on a different shirt, come in and vote again."-DJTHere's how I voted multiple times this year (plus one from back in the day) pic.twitter.com/yhiHgw9WFW— Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) November 15, 2018From stormtrooper…To cop…And even as Darth Vader…Hamill was determined to cast as many votes as possible.Though dressing as an imperial stormtrooper didn’t fool anyone.Arent you a little short for a stormtrooper?— Shan Barrett (@sbarrett4) November 15, 2018 pic.twitter.com/pkiixMCVTo— Trey Castilleja (@TreyCas) November 15, 2018Totally convincing looks. No poll worker could possibly turn you away.— Mara Jade  #ProtectMueller (@MaraJade_2017) November 15, 2018I'm partial to the law enforcement look although the last picture leaves me wanting to do a little ear nibble.— Erica B. (@SaneDaysFan) November 15, 2018In fact, one person just couldn’t. They couldn’t!EVERYTHING I KNOW IS A LIE!!!! pic.twitter.com/1sd5PPcmSN— UnDercover N3rd (@UN3rd) November 15, 2018As for the mustachedgentleman in theblack and white pic, well, your guess is as good as his.Not sure, but probably our handler from 20th Century Fox in Chicago.— Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) November 15, 2018Either way, Twitter urged Hamill to watch out. Trump’s Space Force might find him.	Liberal
Daniel Dale is the Washington Bureau Chief and White House correspondent for the Toronto StarCanada’s largest newspaper. Dale also is an expert on the false statements of President Donald Trump.How does Dale know so much about Trump’s lack of truthfulness?The Toronto Star decided the President’s numerous “false claims” would be a major story of the Trump administration and gave Dale the job of monitoring Trump’s statements. But why call them false claims instead of lies?The Toronto Star states:“The short answer is that we cant be sure that each and every one was intentional. In some cases, he may have been confused or ignorant. What we know, objectively, is that he was not telling the truth.”Dale noted Trump’s false claims seemed to be increasing as we got closer to the 2018 midterms. After reviewing October 5 to November 6, Dale found a new record was set by Trump with 815 false claims in a month.According to coverage in the Toronto Star:“In the 31 days leading up to the midterm elections on Nov. 6, Trump went on a lying spree like we have never seen before even from himan outrageous barrage of serial dishonesty in which he obliterated all of his old records.”Dale shared the information on Twitter as well.How much lying did Donald Trump do in the run-up to the midterms?He made 815 false claims in one month. EIGHT HUNDRED FIFTEEN.It took him 286 days to make his first 815 false claims. He just did it in 31.https://t.co/l4prYiZT0F Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 15, 2018Dale broke down the numbers.Trump made more false claims in the two months leading up to the midterms, 1,176, than he did in all of 2017, 1,011. Here is a chart showing just how extreme this period was: pic.twitter.com/q58RDuTJm0 Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 15, 2018The three most dishonest days of Trump’s presidency were the three days prior to the midterms. The record: 74 false claims the day before the midterms. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 15, 2018Trump made 664 false claims in October. That was more than double his previous record, 320 in August. He has now set new monthly records in June, July, August and October. Here’s the month-by-month chart: pic.twitter.com/8HVGBzhfr7 Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 15, 2018Last data point: Trump averaged 26.3 false claims per day in the month leading up to the midterms. In 2017, it was 2.9 per day. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 15, 2018He added a hat tip to his number cruncher, Ed Tubb.Finally: all of these charts and statistics are courtesy of superb Toronto Star editor @EdTubb, who is the hidden hand behind the fact-check series. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 15, 2018Dale clarified that Trump’s increase in lies was not just because he spoke more.	Liberal
Last week, after a blue wave thrust Democrats into control of the U.S. House of Representatives, President Donald Trump boasted that it was he who was responsible for Republicans maintaining control of the U.S. Senate.Tremendous success tonight, Trump wrote in a tweet. Thank you to all!Tremendous success tonight. Thank you to all!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018Trump also tweeted that those who “worked with me… did very well.”Those that worked with me in this incredible Midterm Election, embracing certain policies and principles, did very well. Those that did not, say goodbye! Yesterday was such a very Big Win, and all under the pressure of a Nasty and Hostile Media!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018Unfortunately for Trump, the data show otherwise.In the week since the midterm, one new survey shows that Trump was indeed correct; he definitely motivated people to vote. But not for the reason he’d like to believe.Yuge victory. Yuge. Just ask Trump.— Kim Murphy (@kimmurphy100) November 15, 2018An Edison Research exit poll published on CNN found that Trump’s popularity is far less abundant than he thinks.In the poll, Trump’s overall disapproval rating was clocked at 54 percent.When asked how they view Trump as president, 90 percent of respondents that disapprove of Trump’s job performance voted for a Democratic House candidate.Compare that to recent midterm years – 2006, 2010, and 2014 – when 82 to 84 percent of voters that disapproved of the president at the time voted for the opposition party.“That was the worst performance for the presidents party among disapproving voters since Ronald Reagan in 1982,” noted The Atlantic.No matter the price it isn't heavy enough.— Suzanne Johnson (@snmij1) November 15, 2018Conversely, in those same years, voters that held approval of the president supported the party in power between 84 and 87 percent. In 2018, that number was nudged slightly upward to 88 percent.Exit polls show consistent pattern of #GOP support among Protestants (esp. White, born-again evangelicals) & regular church attendees. "Nones" likewise have become a monolithic voting block for #Democrats.https://t.co/pzNEG2PlUo via @CNN pic.twitter.com/LpbYsz2THu— Anton Sorkin  (@gortnacul_house) November 13, 2018This is because of 21 Senate races that were electorally favorable to Trump and the Republicans. But the Atlantic notes points out that even though Republicans held the Senate, opposition to Trump drove Democrats to the polls.“Exit polls were conducted for 21 Senate contests in which a Republican faced a Democrat. Democrats won at least 90 percent of voters who disapproved of Trump in 15 of those 21 contests, and up to 89 percent in five more. Scandal-tarred New Jersey Senator Robert Menendez was the only Democratic candidate to win a smaller share of voters who disapproved of Trump, at 79 percent.”Democrats bucked the trend in Arizona and Nevada, however, where Democrats Kyrsten Sinema and Jacky Rosen energized enough of the Democratic base to capture Republican-held seats.Winning?— Rep. Steven Smith  (@RepStevenSmith) November 15, 2018“That same formula in 2020 could threaten Republican Senate seats in Colorado, North Carolina, Arizona, and possibly Texas,” said The Atlantic.Republicans lost the House because 1. They had no viable ACA replacement ready after campaigning against it for 7 years (plus McCain's thumbs down); and 2. They allowed the tax cut be portrayed as helping the rich and ignoring the middle class.— Marc Velletri (@MarcVelletri) November 15, 2018Beyond the Senate, however, the political landscape for Trump is bleak.	Liberal
Christopher Cantwell earned a degree of notoriety last year after hebecame the star of a VICE News documentary watched by tens of millions about the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Now he’s back, this time as one of the key promoters ofAngry Goy II, “a Neo-Nazi video game that allows users to slaughter gay men, Jews, other minorities and journalists,” according toNewsweek.Angry Goy IIis the seasons hit game for White males who have had it with Jewish bullshit, Cantwell wrote.Instead of taking out your frustrations on actual human beings, you can fight the mongrels and degenerates on your computer!Users have the option to play as Cantwell or white nationalist darling Richard Spencer in bids to save President Donald Trump, who has been kidnapped by “left-wing terrorists.”The game is the sequel toAngry Goy, which generated controversy online last year. This iteration features a level in whichthe player must shoot people inside a gay club called LGBTQ+ Agenda HQ.” That level strongly resembles the 2016Pulse Nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, during which Omar Mateen murdered 49 people. The shooting wasthe deadliest mass shooting by a single shooter in the United States until it was surpassed the following year by the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, which resulted in 58 deaths.Another mission requires players to kill journalists inside the offices of theFake News Network,” a reference to a term popularized by President Trump to attack media outlets critical of him and his administration. Trump was widely criticized after he offered his thoughts and prayers to the journalists who perished when a gunman stormed the offices of Annapolis’sCapital Gazetteover the summer.Prior to departing Wisconsin, I was briefed on the shooting at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. Thank you to all of the First Responders who are currently on the scene.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 28, 2018Critics further condemned the presidenttore into the media forallegedly blaming him for a string of suspected pipe bombs that were sent to the offices of CNN and prominent Democratic politicians last month. The packages were later linked to Cesar Sayoc, a longtime supporter of the president who had been photographed attending his rallies and had used his social media account to rail against “left-wing” politicians.Funny how lowly rated CNN, and others, can criticize me at will, even blaming me for the current spate of Bombs and ridiculously comparing this to September 11th and the Oklahoma City bombing, yet when I criticize them they go wild and scream, its just not Presidential!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 26, 2018Angry Goy 2 has already generated a storm of anger from social media users who consider it an example of hate speech.@YouTube how is this disgusting display of homophobia, racism, xenophobia, extremism allowed to be distributed on your website? Are you taking any measures to take down Angry Goy 2 content? There's no place for that kind of violence on YouTube pic.twitter.com/9OVRlNRkgr— Marcos A. Rivera (@MRMarcosRivera) November 13, 2018This is sick, how can the person who published still not in jail? Angry Goy *2*, is there a previous one? #WTF #HateSpeech —Neo-Nazi video game lets users murder LGBT people, jews and other minorities to save Donald Trump https://t.co/mhGZL85VHz— Aspiring Mecha Pilot (@hguemar) November 15, 2018I hope this is just trolling – are there really people so depraved to think this a good idea?! Unfortunately, I think there are.Angry Goy 2' Neo-Nazi Video Game Lets Users Kill LGBT People and Minorities to Save Donald Trump – Newsweek https://t.co/ezb1NkFo5k— Kevin Frick (@iamkfrick) November 13, 2018Cantwell, during his VICE documentary,called for an ethnostate, screamed, Jews will not replace us! as he marched to the statue ofThomas Jefferson on the University of Virginia campus, and said the death of Heather Heyer, who was killed while protesting white nationalists at the rally, was justified,adding, I think that a lot more people are going to die before were done here.	Liberal
The Republican party often claims to be the party of morality and tends to champion traditional Christian values, but many of the policies it seeks to enact – the subjugation of minorities, less access to vital social programs, discrimination against people who don’t share their religious or moral views – often go against the teachings of Christianity itself.Now, a video from Friend Dog Studios is pointing that out.The video shows “GOP Jesus” teaching his followers, but instead of teachings like “love your neighbor as yourself” and “Let he among us without sin cast the first stone,” this Jesus’s teachings are a little…well, different:I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty, and you gave me something to drink, And behold, now Im all lazy and entitled. You shouldnt have done that.The video also features GOP Jesus instructing his disciples to get a young girl “to a detention center” and not to bake cakes for certain people. He goes particularly berserk about saying “Merry Christmas” as well.Twitter users find it refreshing that the sketch is bringing attention to the hypocrisy of many so-called Christian Republican politicians.By this they will know that you are my disciples: that you say MERRY CHRISTMAS! Im in tears watching this #GOPJesus video. https://t.co/1jCq74sv5M— Jonathan Merritt (@JonathanMerritt) November 14, 2018You know that saying, its funny because its true. This is hilarious. Watch it only if you want to laugh. And maybe cry a little. Jesus handing off a little child with lets get her off to a detention centeryes, they go there. GOP Jesus https://t.co/IWGvDsOLBp via @YouTube— Rene Copeland (@renedcopeland) November 12, 2018Best thing on the internet today to shed light in those dark, conservative corners of denial. They should all be forced to watch it!— Alicia Buck (@alleybLFP) November 14, 2018This is soooo perfect. @GOP –  thanks to you I'll never listen to another Republican minister. You're all hypocrites.— Jay Hunt (@JayHunt_) November 15, 2018Brilliant! https://t.co/Gdm8pxY0Ib— Melinda Messenger (@melindamessnger) November 13, 2018Yet the reason so many are laughing is – like a lot of great comedy – somewhat depressing.	Liberal
Over a week after the 2018 midterm elections, 11 major elections remain undecided. Seven in the US House, two in the US Senate and 2 Governor’s races. Two of those 11 are in the state of Florida, where a Senate seat and Governor’s race await recounts.But not everyone supports counting all the votes cast. The GOP in several statesincluding Maine and Georgia in addition to Floridatook steps to halt recounts and run-offs.Federal lawsuits were filed by the GOP to stop counts while Democrats filed to count all of the ballots.Judges are siding with the Democrats so far in Georgia, Maine and Florida.In Maine, US District Court Judge Lance Walker ruled Thursday on incumbent Republican Representative Bruce Poliquin’s attempts to block voter approved ranked choice voting to decide the outcome of his contest against Democratic challenger Jared Golden. Ranked choice voting prevailed and Jared Golden won the seat in the US House of Representatives.In his decision, Judge Lance Walker stated:“As it stands, the citizens of Maine have rejected the policy arguments plaintiffs advance against RCV (ranked choice voting). Maine voters cast their ballots in reliance on the RCV system. For the reasons indicated above, I am not persuaded that the United States Constitution compels the Court to interfere with this most sacred expression of democratic will by enjoining the ballot-counting process and declaring Representative Poliquin the victor.”After ranked choice tabulations, Democrat Golden won by 2, 905 votes over Republican Poliquin.BREAKING: Ranked Choice Voting determines winner of Maines 2nd Congressional District is DEMOCRAT JARED GOLDEN pic.twitter.com/3sQeeejOyS Danielle Waugh NBC 10 Boston (@DWaughNBCBoston) November 15, 2018Poliquin is likely to still pursue his lawsuit to overturn ranked choice voting, approved twice by Maine voters.In Florida, Republicans tried to block counting ballots with “signature issues.” ButUS District Court Judge Mark Walker ruled the refusal to allow voters impacted by this decision to “cure” their ballots was unconstitutional.Voters affected now have until 5pm on Saturday to remedy any issue with their ballot signatures.Florida voters: you have until 5 pm on Saturday Nov 17th to cure absentee ballots rejected for signature mismatch. At least 5,000 ballots rejected for this reason https://t.co/gsSx812JGtUse this form to do it https://t.co/GXzewLsPKnPlease RT & spread word Ari Berman (@AriBerman) November 15, 2018@TJMShow Hey Tom! Can you please let your listeners know that they have until Saturday at 5pm to cure a signature issue with their vote by mail ballot in Florida. This is important. They can find out if their ballot has not been tabulated at the SOE website for their county. Pam Keith (@PamKeithFL) November 15, 2018In his Florida ruling, Judge Mark Walker stated:The precise issue in this case is whether Floridas law that allows county election officials to reject vote-by-mail and provisional ballots for mismatched signatureswith no standards, an illusory process to cure, and no process to challenge the rejectionpasses constitutional muster.”“The answer is simple. It does not.Judge Walker added:“Let this Court be clear: it is NOT ordering county canvassing boards to count every mismatched vote, sight unseen.”“Rather, the county supervisors of elections are directed to allow those voters who should have had an opportunity to cure their ballots in the first place to cure their vote-by-mail and provisional ballots now, before the second official results are fully counted.”Florida Republican Governor Rick Scottwho is also trying to win the Senate seat against Democratic incumbent Bill Nelsoncalled the ruling baseless and announced a plan to appeal.Statement from the Scott for Florida team in response to todays ruling: pic.twitter.com/nbsT3SEUPz Rick Scott (@ScottforFlorida) November 15, 2018Democrats in Florida, of course, saw things differently.What a relief! Thanks to Judge Walker for common sense ruling allowing votes to count. I plan to address the issue with my ballot at the PBC election office tomorrow – thankful that my vote will be counted! ? https://t.co/FdTY6KELVJ Patrick Murphy (@PatrickMurphyFL) November 15, 2018The state deadline for certifying the election results is November 20.In Georgia, a judge also ruled in favor of counting versus rejecting votes. Gubernatorial candidate, Democrat Stacey Abrams, applauded the decision.	Liberal
We expect to encounter the beauty of nature at the beach, but too often instead beachgoers encounter trash, pollution, and excessive development on the worlds shorelines. A growing number of sand artists want to show another way humans can leave their mark on the beach: Temporarily. Sand artists create stunning works of art designed to dissolve in the oceans tides. Visitors to the Welsh Pembrokeshire Coast in Britain might encounter artist Marc Treanors astonishing works of art  if they time their visit to the beach just right. Pembrokes enormous, ornate sand carvings, which he creates simply by raking the sand, take hours to create and last just a few hours. They require no toxic materials, consume no resources, harm no species, and will never require disposal.“It’s completely part of it, it’s totally integral to the work and the fact it is impermanent and it is temporary,” Treanor says.He takes inspiration from mandalas, crop circles, and other geometric patterns, and begins with a sketch on a paper at home. Then he heads to the beach with his rake and begins work. The finished works are so large that sometimes strangers join in and help him create them. They are best viewed from above, so the artist and beachgoers climb up on nearby cliffs to catch a photo  quickly, before they wash away.Environmental artistTony Plant says the Internet helps more people experience his art, long after it has washed away. In the tradition of leave only footprints, take only pictures, his work is meant to be low impact, but through shared images, can continue to delight people long after the waves wash it away.I can literally make a piece of work and know that maybe one or two or three people have seen it, Plant says. Put an image online and then it goes, and it can literally go around the world with a click of a button. That becomes very, very powerful: the way the image travels through social media.Amazing sand art from Tony Plant. pic.twitter.com/ZXhggf4K4U— Shawn Huckaby (@ShawnHuckaby) December 23, 2013That's a different scale of sand art to Tony Plant who does these amazing temporary images with a rake! pic.twitter.com/hxtLiYThP8— Archi_Jam (@Archi_Jam) February 23, 2014These artists are doing more than just playing in the sand: They are making viable careers. Sand artists ply their skills at weddings and special events, and even have their own talent agencies. Plants work appears in a music video byLight Colours Soundfor recording artistRuarri Joseph. Treanor has worked with local councils on projects designed to bring in tourism, and he joined three other sand artists on a project for the European Environment Bureau on a piece designed to raise awareness about the problem of plastic pollution in the oceans. Their creation featured an elaborate sand drawing of Poseidon rising from the ocean to throw a plastic bottle back to the land.Many sand artists focus on environmental messages, drawing attention to the plight of the oceans and the conditions of the beaches on which they work. Others hope to inspire humanity. On November 11, the 100th anniversary of Armistice Day, 30 beaches around the UK will feature sand art to recognize the sacrifice of the men and women who lost their lives during the First World War. A group of sand artists called Sand in Your Eye will create images of the fallen upon the beaches of Clacton and Great Yarmouth. In 2013, the group marked D-Day by creating The Fallen, 9,000 silhouettes of fallen soldiers carved on Arromanches Beach in Normandy, France, the site where that many lives were lost during World War II.	Liberal
President Donald Trump reportedly loves making fun of Sean Hannity and his softball interviews of the president according to a new expos from The Daily Beast.Three anonymous sources close to Trump and Hannity told Asawin Suebsaeng and Lachlan Cartwright that Hannity’s “slobbering” quashes Trump’s innate desire to feed off chaos and controversy.One source recalled Trump once saying of Hannity that “its like hes not even trying” while mocking Hannity’s questions, which typically revolve around how great I am.Eventually, Trump turns on everyone. Even his most loyal towel boys like Hannity. https://t.co/ITh4EzdCuY— Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) November 15, 2018Another person said Trump refers to Hannity’s questions asdumb” and even began to pity the Fox News host, with whom Trump is purportedly very close. This culminated leading up to the midterms as Hannity attempted to analyze the shellacking Republicans received last Tuesday in his most recent interview with the president.Hannity is not a towel boy……… hes no more than a catch cloth.— Robert Clift (@CliftRobbie) November 15, 2018“Election Day [2016], I actually called you,” Hannity said to Trump. “I said, Youre gonna get bad news about 5:15 that afternoon. You lost Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin. And you won em all. Polls dont mean anything, do they?I lost them based on the fake news, Trump replied. Hannity parroted the same as if it were gospel:“Fake news.”Trump is an a**hole…he is not a good person….he is not a good businessman…he is not good husband….he is not good.— dom pepe (@domskis69) November 15, 2018One Republican operative close to Trump said of the president’s constant bickering with reporters: He likes it as a sport.”Trump would turn on his own children.— Elizabeth R. (@JackRottie) November 15, 2018https://twitter.com/revidini/status/1063073742505549825Trump’s recent spat with CNN’s Jim Acosta, whose press credentials Trump spontaneously revoked and for which the administration is being sued, is a perfect example of how Trump feeds off confrontation.@lauferlaw Hes mad b/c Hannity didnt stop Fox from supporting Acosta suit.— SFD (@SusanDeMaris) November 15, 2018[Trump] does enjoy the back-and-forth with the presslook at this wholeJim Acosta thing, said conservative commentator and Trump loyalist Jeff Lord. The president can call on anybody he wants. He could have ignored Jim Acosta. He didnt do it. And he didnt do it because they would have some chance to do some verbal jousting there.Donald Trump delights in the combat with these folks, Lord said, noting that when Trump was a presidential candidate, he promised to “fight back” against the “dishonest media.”Despite the mockery, The Daily Beast found, Trump still “loves Sean,” often citing him to White House staffers as someone who understands conservative America – which is Trump’s political base.Once trumps are out of power it will be interesting to watch everyone turn against them, and I do mean everyone globally. I anticipate bankruptcy will come quickly as well. They will be pariahs. In turn trumps will turn on their supporters. You can bet trump will continue to con.— David Greenfield (@dcgreenfield) November 15, 2018The special relationship between Trump and Hannity was highlighted in May when New York Magazine revealed that the two men speak on the phone, in private, nearly every night.	Liberal
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (KY) posted a photo to his official Twitter account welcoming the group of incoming Republican senators. He’s now been criticized for including Florida Governor Rick Scott in the group: Scott’s race against Democratic incumbent Bill Nelson is currently being recounted and has not been called.A warm welcome to the incoming class of Republican Senators. pic.twitter.com/yNcqWvX0qp— Leader McConnell (@senatemajldr) November 14, 2018People did not take too kindly to McConnell’s gaffe.This is obscene. This is not done. You don't declare someone a senator when ballots are still being counted and a recount is mandated. This is disgraceful and spits on the democratic process. https://t.co/d5aB1AFG99— Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) November 15, 2018Mitch McConnell stole a Supreme Court seat & is now welcoming Rick Scott as new senator before all the votes have been counted https://t.co/3kAjec9Zrr— Ari Berman (@AriBerman) November 14, 2018Im going to apply for a job and just show up at the office before they hire me. Looks like it works in this shitty administration. Ms. Chanandler Bong ?? (@realchanandlerb) November 15, 2018Future history books: pictured here is a group of newly elected senators taken on November 14, 2018. Rick Scott (second from right) was not officially elected as of this date.If he wins or not, it should be noted this was an extraordinary F U to democracy. #CountEveryVote Jeff Brody (@MyLifeInBoxes) November 15, 2018Oh look, @ScottforFlorida declared himself the winner before all the votes have been counted, and just planted himself in DC. How embarrassing will it be when Nelson wins and he has to pack it up and go back to Florida unemployed? ?? Kelly ???? ???? (@PsyKellygy) November 15, 2018Scott has recused himself from certifying the results of his Senate race, one of the most closely watched ones around the nation. As of 9:40 a.m., Scott has4,098,046 votes, or 50.1 percent of the vote. Nelson has4,085,532 votes, or 49.9 percent of the vote. Scott’s lead is narrow and race has not been called.Scott spurred controversy this week after he and President Donald Trump claimed that Democrats aretrying to “steal” the election. Both men have made unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud.Speaking on Fox News on Monday, Scott claimedhe “won the election” and added that “no recount has ever overturned a lead like that.”The League of Women Voters of Florida and Common Causefiled a lawsuiton Monday requesting that Scott remove himselffrom any official role in the electoral process. Scott’s campaign dismissed the lawsuit, noting thathe also recused himself from certifying his 2014 re-election as governor.	Liberal
With the departure of Attorney General Jeff Sessions from the administration of President Donald Trump, concerns regarding the protection of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian election interference have never been more urgent. The President has sought to hinder the investigation at every turn and detested Sessions when he recused himself from overseeing the investigation – a move Trump saw as a betrayal.Since Sessions’ departure, Trump has appointed the former Attorney General’s Chief of Staff Matthew Whitaker as acting AG. Like Trump, Whitaker is starkly against the Russia investigation, and many believe that allowing him to oversee it would bring the investigation to a halt.Enter Senator Jeff Flake.Flake (R-AZ) announced on the Senate floor that he would not approve any of the pending Judicial nominees until his colleagues passed the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act. The bill would amend the powers of appointing and firing special counsel and require that the counsel be given written notice specifying the reasons for removal.Jeff Flake: "I will not vote to advance any of the 21 judicial nominees pending in the Judiciary Committee or vote to confirm the 32 judges awaiting confirmation on the Senate Floor until S. 2644 [the Mueller protection bill] is brought to the full Senate for a vote." (via CSPAN) pic.twitter.com/JMWkREgsJx— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 14, 2018This isn’t the first time Sessions has broken with the Republicans loyal to the President, but the times anything substantive came of his moderation can be counted on one hand. During the confirmation hearings of now-Justice Brett Kavanaugh, Flake abstained from voting until an FBI investigation into the multiple allegations of sexual assault against the nominee could be performed.Despite the investigation having an extremely limited scope and being performed in under a week, Flake fell back in line to vote for Kavanaugh anyway.Now, Americans are having Deja vu.I'll believe this threat when Flake actually follows through on it.— Richard Lorant (@richard_lorant) November 14, 2018Wait so now he wants to be brave. Why was he not brave during the SC hearings? What a joke this man is.— mommy1971 (@mommy1971) November 14, 2018How many times has Jeff Flake gone to the Senate floor and acted tough until voting time? He couldve been a hero a long time ago by voting no on Kavanaugh.— JustHereForTheTweets (@hear_tweets) November 14, 2018Didn't we see the same charades with " I believe Professor Ford let's pretend to investigate."— Michael Ward (@michaelirish211) November 14, 2018https://twitter.com/thinkB4toolate/status/1062832244736196609Even if Flake is being sincere, one crucial factor makes the gesture seem hollow to many.	Liberal
The newly elected members of the House of Representativesor at least those newly elected from the 427 seats that were decided thus farwent to Washington DC Wednesday for a freshman orientation of sorts. Among them were the largest number of women ever elected and several firsts.Democrats Sharice Davids of Kansas and Deb Haaland of New Mexico became the first Native American women ever elected to Congress. Fellow DemocratsRashida Tlaib of Minnesota and Ilhan Omar of Michigan are the first Muslim women ever elected. Democrat Ayanna Presley became the first Black woman to represent Massachusetts.As is customary, the freshman legislators took group and individual official photos.CLASS PHOTO: New House members braved chilly temperatures outside the Capitol building as freshman orientation continues  with House leadership in both parties a hot topic after House Democrats picked up more than 30 seats to take control in January. https://t.co/w07ve8gTuV pic.twitter.com/LdW7i9dU37 World News Tonight (@ABCWorldNews) November 14, 2018To the three newly sworn-in Members from Rochester, NY; Tulsa, OK; and Delaware County, PA, welcome to Congress! pic.twitter.com/tgX4DtMLE6— Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) November 14, 2018Newly elected House members (of both parties) gathering for class photo. It is 40 degrees out (feels like 34) pic.twitter.com/JLsws29HEv Erica Werner (@ericawerner) November 14, 2018This is the most women ever elected to congress. Today the members-elect of the 116th Congress took a group picture. . @sharicedavids bottom left white coat. @41actionnews ??Mandel Ngan / AFP – Getty Images pic.twitter.com/gYvVnlsgAo Steven Dial (@StevenDialTV) November 14, 2018 Once those photos hit social media, people began to remark on a noticeable difference between the Republican and Democratic freshman classes.House Republicans-elect look pretty different from House Democrats-elect. pic.twitter.com/KSgFVU4cFx Erica Werner (@ericawerner) November 13, 2018There is something very striking about the new House members. #BlueWave pic.twitter.com/W0F6c3rHKK Valerie Vaughan ?? (@Altitude5280) November 14, 2018Eye-opening: “Proportion of Democrats who are white men will drop from 41% to 38% while Republican figure will climb from 86% to 90%” https://t.co/PZkyD4PTsT Kevin Frisch (@KevinFrisch) November 14, 201834 women have become new house members and over 100 will be in the house next session.Of the 34 new members: 33 are democrats and 1 is a republican.https://t.co/bwziJWK7sZ #BlueWave pic.twitter.com/ELWD8EqfJe Shai (@shaig) November 9, 2018A look back to 2016 showed the GOP equally “diverse.”19 Of the 27 freshman Republican members of House plus leadership. I’ve learned a lot & am excited about the future! pic.twitter.com/uM1CMI9L6H James Comer (@KYComer) November 17, 2016Once the disparity was pointed out, people had plenty to say about it.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Wednesday made a bizarre claim about voter IDs in an exclusive interview with conservative outlet The Daily Caller.Trump, without evidence, blamed the string of recent Republican losses on “potentially illegal votes,” claiming that there are people out there – somewhere – literally making rounds to the polls despite not being registered to vote.In a Daily Caller interview, Trump makes this false claim about voter ID: "If you buy a box of cereal  you have a voter ID."He also claims, without evidence, that, "Sometimes they go to their car, put on a different hat, put on a different shirt, come in and vote again."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 14, 2018The Republicans dont win and thats because of potentially illegal votes, Trump complained. When people get in line that have absolutely no right to vote and they go around in circles. Sometimes they go to their car, put on a different hat, put on a different shirt, come in and vote again. Nobody takes anything. Its really a disgrace whats going on.The president then falsely claimed that voter IDs are required to by cereal.If you buy a box of cereal you have a voter ID, Trump continued. They try to shame everybody by calling them racist, or calling them something, anything they can think of, when you say you want voter ID. But voter ID is a very important thing.Sound familiar?Back in August, Trump said at a campaign rally in Florida that IDs were required to buy groceries. That, of course, is completely untrue.You know if you go out and you wanna buy groceries, you need a picture on a card, thepresident proclaimed, hinting that the billionaire has never actually set foot in a grocery store. You need ID.Trump says you need a photo ID to buy groceries. pic.twitter.com/B4Nd0S645M— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 1, 2018It didn’t take long for Twitter to tear into Trump’s ignorance about how both elections and groceries work.If you buy a box of cerealyou have a voter ID.–Donald J. Trump, President of the United States of America   Nov. 14, 2018— Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) November 14, 2018Little-known secret: the grape in Grape Nuts is wine.— Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) November 14, 2018He doesn't understand how umbrellas or groceries work at all.— Mabby Mab Mab EverMAB (@mabbymabmab) November 14, 2018or voting…— HangOnASec (@hangonasecdude) November 14, 2018If you buy a box of cereal  you have a voter ID, Trump continued.                                    What in the ENTIRE hell is this orange laughing stock talking about???— Julie Fields (@JulieDetroit) November 14, 2018#DonaldTrump tells Daily Caller:  If you buy a box of cereal  you have a voter ID." Of course, this is a lie.This isn't funny folks. The man is mentally ill. pic.twitter.com/HlPhEwwEtX— Janet Shan (@hinterlandg) November 14, 2018The idiotic conspiracy theories of the right…If you buy a box of cereal  you have a voter ID, – Donald J Trump, 11/14/2018I haven't yet seen any states acknowledging the validity of the "cereal box voter registration"— dnarich (@ddnarich) November 14, 2018Yeah. Whatever.Trump just said If you buy a box of cereal  you have a voter ID, Just try that at the next election and see if it works…Why don't people want every legal/legitimate vote counted???— dnarich (@ddnarich) November 14, 2018Yeah…as Trump said "If you buy a box of cereal  you have a voter ID".Sure. I'll try that at my polling place next election…— dnarich (@ddnarich) November 14, 2018Attention, to any of my conservatives followers, can you interpret or translate this statement given by @POTUS today in an interview with the Dally Caller.  It kinda went over my head. If you buy a box of cereal  you have a voter ID, #DonaldTrump said.Thanks in advance!— Patrick Balester (@patrickbalester) November 14, 2018Or that voter fraud, statistically, is exceedingly rare."If you buy a box of cerealyou have a voter ID…They try to shame everybody by calling them racist, or calling them something…when you say you want voter ID."1. you don't need ID for fruit loops2. lightening strikes are more common than voter impersonation— Jane C. Timm (@janestreet) November 14, 2018Has Trump ever set foot in a grocery store?	Liberal
Mississippi Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith (R) has doubled-down on her racially-motivated joke that she would attend a public hanging if one of her supporters had invited her to witness it.The clip shows Smith getting introduced to a crowd by local cattle rancher Colin Hutchinson, while standing in front of a statue of Elvis Presley in his hometown of Tupelo, Mississippi.If he invited me to a public hanging, Smith said of Hutchinson, Id be on the front row.Watch the clip below:"If he invited me to a public hanging, I'd be on the front row"- Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith says in Tupelo, MS after Colin Hutchinson, cattle rancher, praises her. Hyde-Smith is in a runoff on Nov 27th against Mike Espy. pic.twitter.com/0a9jOEjokr— Lamar White, Jr. (@LamarWhiteJr) November 11, 2018Hyde-Smith refused to apologize for her offensive statement.I referred to accepting an invitation to a speaking engagement, Hyde-Smith said in a statement Sunday. In referencing the one who invited me, I used an exaggerated expression of regard, and any attempt to turn this into a negative connotation is ridiculous.Instead of issuing an apology, Hyde-Smith said in a statement on Monday that she had already addressed her remarks.When asked by a reporter if she was “familiar with Mississippi’s history of lynchings,” Hyde-Smith scoffed, refusing to acknowledge that her comments were deeply racist.“I put out a statement on that yesterday,” the Senator said, “and that’s all I’m gonna say about it.”When Hyde-Smith was pressed further on why her joke about lynching shouldn’t be interpreted negatively, the Senator regurgitated her previous talking point.“I put out a statement on that yesterday and that’s all I’m gonna say about it.”Watch the press conference clip below:In todays press conference receiving an endorsement from the National Right to Life President, @SenHydeSmith was only asked questions regarding her statement on public hangings this is what she and Gov. @PhilBryantMS had to say: #mssen #mselex pic.twitter.com/HuFZlNlq34— Yall Politics (@MSyallpolitics) November 12, 2018The American Civil Liberties Union slammed Hyde-Smith for using the dark history of racially-motivated hangings as a campaign joke.“Hyde-Smith should be ashamed of herself,” ACLU of Mississippi Executive Director Jennifer Riley Collins and ACLU Deputy Legal Director Jeff Robinson said in a joint statement on Tuesday.“The fact that she chooses to use such repugnant language despite the ugly history in her state,” the ACLU said, “speaks to her lack of concern and knowledge about the experience of people who don’t look like her.”“To celebrate the chance to sit in the front row of a public hanging demonstrates a profound ignorance of the states institutional legacy of racism,” the ACLU continued. “Sen. Hyde-Smith needs to be held accountable for her words.”The backlash on social media has continued since Hyde-Smith’s “joke” first appeared online.Supporters of her opponent, Congressman Mike Espy (D), with whom she faces a runoff election on November 27, want her gone.To remove lynching enthusiast Cindy Hyde-Smith from the U.S. Senate, people can support Democratic nominee @espyforsenate in the November 27 special election with a donation at https://t.co/NGGwTB7IL6#MSSen #mssenate #Mississippi #MikeEspy #MikeEspyForSenate #CindyHydeSmith— (((Mathew Helman))) (@MatHelman) November 13, 2018This is why @espyforsenate needs to be a NATIONAL CAUSE.  Please donate and support his campaign today!  RT  #GOTV #MississippiRunoffElection #BlueWave #GoodTrouble https://t.co/4jGaiEjaYr— Bitter Lemon (@solonl2001) November 13, 2018Hyde-Smith’s insensitivity to racial animus across the South is nothing short of jarring.	Liberal
Fox News released a statement in support of CNN and reporter Jim Acosta, signaling that the network would stand by CNN’s lawsuit over the White House removing Acosta’s press credentials.Fox News supports CNN in its legal effort to regain its White House reporters press credential. We intend to file an amicus brief with the U.S. District Court, network President Jay Wallace said in a statement. Secret Service passes for working White House journalists should never be weaponized.While we dont condone the growing antagonistic tone by both the President and the press at recent media avails, we do support a free press, access and open exchanges for the American people,” he added.Breaking: Fox News says the network "supports CNN in its legal effort to regain its White House reporter's press credentials." Here's the full statement pic.twitter.com/ugOuCmt1BR— Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) November 14, 2018Fox News joined such organizations as AP, Bloomberg, First Look Media, Gannett, and NBC in saying: “It is imperative that independent journalists have access to the President and activities, and that journalists are not barred for arbitrary reasons.”Joint statement on CNN/Acosta lawsuit from AP, Bloomberg, First Look Media, Fox News, Gannett, NBC, NYT, Politico, USA Today, WashPost & others: pic.twitter.com/z4nuoxPuHp— Michael M. Grynbaum (@grynbaum) November 14, 2018Fox News is well known for its sympathetic coverage of the president (the president even considers “Fox and Friends” one of his favorite programs) so this move has surprised many.CNNs lawsuit against the KKK White House is now being backed with support by many news organizations including NBC and Politico.State TV Fox has also surprisingly joined on in support.— Ricky Davila (@TheRickyDavila) November 14, 2018Fox News is supporting CNNs lawsuit against the WH over press access. If a WH taking a press pass away becomes precedent – then in a different admin, a Fox News correspondent or anyone, could be next— Hadas Gold (@Hadas_Gold) November 14, 2018#MAGA is gonna be so confused today when they find out Fox News is filling an amicus brief in District Court supporting CNNs lawsuit against Trump.It makes me giggle.— KassandraSeven (@KassandraSeven) November 14, 2018Fox News fans were especially perturbed by the move.WOW!!! FOX NEWS WILL SUPPORT JIM ACOSTA AND CNN. SAD.–> FOX HAS LOST ALL MY RESPECT. pic.twitter.com/Mjw40ogrhE— Michael Moates (@freedom_moates) November 14, 2018Fox is moving more liberal because the owners liberal sons are running it now.  Im starting to watch one America news more— Ellen Tracy (@BeachGal4eva24) November 14, 2018The time has come to find a new voice for Republicans. FOX news has lost its focus. If I want to hear CNN, I know where to find them, and the rest of the left-wing liberal biased media. Say it aint so, FOX.— Jordan Dee (@bjordandee) November 14, 2018@FoxNews should never defend such a rude and disruptive man.  He is free to speak & write anything he wants.  We deserve orderly & respectful White House Briefings— Luann Meador Keller (@LuannKeller) November 14, 2018CNN filed its lawsuit yesterday, saying that the White House has violated both the network’s and Acosta’s “First Amendment rights of freedom of the press and Fifth Amendment rights to due process.”This morning, CNN filed a lawsuit against @realDonaldTrump and top aides. The White House has violated CNN and @Acosta's First Amendment rights of freedom of the press and Fifth Amendment rights to due process. Complaint: https://t.co/43oX6L8xA7 pic.twitter.com/RvJ0Cgh6oi— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 13, 2018The suit listsDonald J. Trump, White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly, White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications William Shine, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the United States Secret Service, Secret Service Director Randolph Alles, and Secret Service Agent John Doe as defendants.	Liberal
Decency has never been the strong suit of President Donald Trump. While Americans may have gotten used to this, the French government is calling the President out for it.It began in response to comments by French President Emmanuel Macron in favor of a united European defense system. Trump subsequently mocked France for being invaded by Germany in the Second World War and railed against Macron. Donald Trump posted the tweets on the third anniversary of the Bataclan terrorist attack in Paris which killed 130 people.Emmanuel Macron suggests building its own army to protect Europe against the U.S., China and Russia. But it was Germany in World Wars One & Two – How did that work out for France? They were starting to learn German in Paris before the U.S. came along. Pay for NATO or not!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 13, 2018On Trade, France makes excellent wine, but so does the U.S. The problem is that France makes it very hard for the U.S. to sell its wines into France, and charges big Tariffs, whereas the U.S. makes it easy for French wines, and charges very small Tariffs. Not fair, must change!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 13, 2018The problem is that Emmanuel suffers from a very low Approval Rating in France, 26%, and an unemployment rate of almost 10%. He was just trying to get onto another subject. By the way, there is no country more Nationalist than France, very proud people-and rightfully so!……..— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 13, 2018……MAKE FRANCE GREAT AGAIN!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 13, 2018The comments were widely met with backlash given the solemnity of the day for the French people and the callousness with which Trump insulted the country.Now, a spokesman for the French government, Benjamin Griveaux, is calling him out for it:“We were commemorating the assassination of 130 of our compatriots three years ago in Paris and Saint-Denis, and so I will reply in English: ‘Common decency’ would have been appropriate.”Twitter users everywhere agreed.It was absolutely appalling, even for Trump, to savage a country on it's day of national mourning. What in God's name is wrong with this man?— larryleclair (@larryleclair) November 14, 2018I side with France.  Trump is a loser & an international embarrassment! — Karmascoming4u (@rayofliteindark) November 14, 2018We are sorry for his lack of conscience. He does not speak for the majority of the people— Dana (@Bittyreen) November 14, 2018Americans warned the French that expecting common decency was a lot to ask of the person occupying the highest office in the land.This is the president who sends along criticism to those dealing with deadly wildfires and hurricanes. Or generic thoughts and prayers to victims of constant gun violence in his own country. I'm afraid you'll never get any common decency from Donald Trump, France.— pwithm11 (@pwtham11) November 14, 2018Trump doesnt respect his own country . The French have high hopes !— rmc (@Thelast_try) November 14, 2018There is no common decency within Trump, the Trump family, or any of his inner circle. None. Nada. Zip.— Ellen Spivak (@EllenSpivak) November 14, 2018Fresh off a France visit fraught with criticism, Trump’s Twitter tantrum was only the most recent in a series of missteps with one of the United States’ closest allies.	Liberal
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) in a Fox News OpEd Tuesday issued a stern warning to the new Democratic majority in the U.S. House – don’t obstruct, govern.“Last Tuesday I was proud to see that the American people voted keep Republicans in control of the U.S. Senate,” McConnell wrote. “But we also learned that, come January, the Republican Senate majority will be dealing with a House of Representatives under Democratic control.”McConnell touted his bipartisan achievements in the Senate, even though Democrats have been in the minority for years.Republicans did this one their own:“Both houses of Congress have taken swift action to right-size a bloated federal regulatory state. The Senate has shattered records in confirming the presidents well-qualified judicial nominees, including two outstanding jurists to serve on the Supreme Court.”The following was done without bipartisan support:“And together, we passed the first comprehensive reform of the nations tax code in a generation. Already, Americans paychecks are growing, consumer confidence is high and unemployment has reached a near 50-year low.”Twitter didn’t take kindly to McConnell’s call for unity, as he spent the entirety of Obama’s presidency stopping at nothing to block the 44th president’s agenda, despite his having been elected in two historic landslides. pic.twitter.com/Rz70xiy52C— Anthony Poirier (@AnthonyPoirier1) November 14, 2018McConnell claimed that “the past two years of unified Republican government will be remembered as a period of historic productivity,” and that he hopes Democrats will choose to put partisan politics aside for the sake of productive governance.“So make no mistake, he said. “The Senate has proven its ability to reach bipartisan solutions to some of the most pressing challenges facing our nation.”Oh?Well work with you about as much as you worked with us, Karma my friend. https://t.co/xO14FC6RiW— LikeEquality RESIST FBR  (@llholcomb) November 14, 2018Why, then, is McConnell refusing to enact legislation to protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller? pic.twitter.com/WAyqPGW9T2— Eater of Souls #VetsResistSquadron (@EaterSouls) November 14, 2018If youre feeling bipartisan-y, I suggest you start with supporting the bipartisan legislation to protect Mueller. Time to cut bait and get on the right side of history. You have greatly damaged our democracy, but you can start taking steps to build it back up.— Linda Lotspeich (@llotspeich) November 14, 2018Merrick Garland. Kavanaugh. Blocking 82 of Obama's nominees.Refusal to bring up a protect Mueller bill to the Senate floor.Setting your prime goal at the outset of his election: making Obama a one term president.You are the master of relentless partisanship. But it's a new day.— Kim Stewart (@DoryWilson) November 14, 2018The Kentucky Republican, infamous for his historic obstruction and warping of Senate rules under President Barack Obama, swiped at Democrats for daring to deliver to their voters what they had promised – holding President Donald Trump and his corrupt administration accountable. pic.twitter.com/cxsCCm2Ka6— Eater of Souls #VetsResistSquadron (@EaterSouls) November 14, 2018McConnell famously said that his one goal was to make Obama a “one-term president.” He failed, but it set the tone for how the Senate functions for years to come.Merrick is only one, albeit an important, data point. McConnells outrageous obstruction goes back much further. He tried to block and delegitimize every action taken during the Obama presidency. He blew up long-standing norms to block many dozens of judges. 1 https://t.co/48m4RKsA3y— Norman Ornstein (@NormOrnstein) November 14, 2018“That message may have been lost on a few House Democrats, who have made clear their preference for investigations over policy results,” McConnell wrote. “After years of rhetoric, its hardly news that some are more interested in fanning the flames of division than reaching across the aisle.”“But however Democrats interpret the latest message from voters,” the Majority Leader said, “Senate Republicans will continue our commitment to delivering results. pic.twitter.com/Rz70xiy52C— Anthony Poirier (@AnthonyPoirier1) November 14, 2018Good to see your sense of humor is intact. Mine will kick in the day your successor is sworn into the Majority Leader position.— White House Miscommunication Director (@HopeHacks) November 14, 2018hey smuck Fk off , for 8 years you made Obama the focus of your white man entitlement , Then another two years beating up the people of this country, You Reap What You Sow , so i suggest you grab that shovel and start tossing that cow manure back at you and your party , KARMA— Resistance Flea (@wendytheflea) November 14, 2018McConnell continued, vowing to put the interests of the middle class first.	Liberal
On the evening of last week’s elections, President Donald Trump declared the 2018 midterms a big success for himself and his fellow Republicans, despite the fact that Democrats took back the House of Representatives.Tremendous success tonight. Thank you to all! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018He continued that narrative for the next day.Received so many Congratulations from so many on our Big Victory last night, including from foreign nations (friends) that were waiting me out, and hoping, on Trade Deals. Now we can all get back to work and get things done! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018Those that worked with me in this incredible Midterm Election, embracing certain policies and principles, did very well. Those that did not, say goodbye! Yesterday was such a very Big Win, and all under the pressure of a Nasty and Hostile Media! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018I will be doing a news conference at The White House – 11:30 A.M. Will be discussing our success in the Midterms! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018To any of the pundits or talking heads that do not give us proper credit for this great Midterm Election, just remember two words – FAKE NEWS! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018However as final results came in, and Democrats picked up more seats than originally projected, Trump’s Twitter feed went on the attack.If the Democrats think they are going to waste Taxpayer Money investigating us at the House level, then we will likewise be forced to consider investigating them for all of the leaks of Classified Information, and much else, at the Senate level. Two can play that game! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018You mean they are just now finding votes in Florida and Georgia  but the Election was on Tuesday? Lets blame the Russians and demand an immediate apology from President Putin! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 9, 2018President Macron of France has just suggested that Europe build its own military in order to protect itself from the U.S., China and Russia. Very insulting, but perhaps Europe should first pay its fair share of NATO, which the U.S. subsidizes greatly! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 9, 2018There is no reason for these massive, deadly and costly forest fires in California except that forest management is so poor. Billions of dollars are given each year, with so many lives lost, all because of gross mismanagement of the forests. Remedy now, or no more Fed payments! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 10, 2018According to White House staff and members of the diplomatic corps for the US and allies, Trump went on theattack in person as well.British Prime Minister Theresa May was one of the first allies to receive a dose of the President’s temper after the actual results of the midterm elections began to be seen by Trump and the world. In a call on board Air Force One, Trump reportedly berated May after she called to congratulate him on the 2018 midterms.After declaring the midterms a success, the President was confronted with the fact the GOP barely held on to the Senate. Trump may still see a gain of a Republican seat or two, depending on a recount vote in the Florida race between Republican Rick Scott with Democrat incumbent Senator Bill Nelson and the outcome of a run-off in Mississippi.So far, Democrats appear to have picked up 33 seats in the House of Representatives with 9 races still undecided as of Wednesday morning. Many of the new Dem seats went to women and minorities.There is something very striking about the new House members. #BlueWave pic.twitter.com/W0F6c3rHKK Valerie Vaughan ?? (@Altitude5280) November 14, 2018Trump’s track record with both groups is less than favorable.In light of the real results of the midterm elections, sources at the White House expect major staff changes. One change already made was the forced resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions the day after the 2018 midterms.But the President received harsh criticism and pushback on his choice of interim replacement,Matthew Whitaker, adding to his current woes. Then during a trip to France to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the end of WWI, Trump took several missteps leading to further criticism and rebuke on the world stage.According to one senior White House official:“He was frustrated with the trip. And hes itching to make some changes. This is a week where things could get really dicey.”Staff members described the President as sulky, brooding, angry and resentful during the 43 hours spent in France. The time included several outbursts directed at his staff over Trump’s decision to skip portions of the official international ceremonies due to weather.On Twitter, Trump first attempted to blame the Secret Service for his failure to attend one key ceremony.By the way, when the helicopter couldnt fly to the first cemetery in France because of almost zero visibility, I suggested driving. Secret Service said NO, too far from airport & big Paris shutdown. Speech next day at American Cemetery in pouring rain! Little reported-Fake News! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 13, 2018The White House later walked back the claim.Trump also sparred with French President Emmanuel Macron with many in the United States declaring Macron the winner after his speech against nationalism, calling it the opposite of patriotism.According to White House sources, Trump viewed the speech as a personal attack.	Liberal
Dion Cini, a former Marine who lives on New York’s Upper West Side, was banned from Walt Disney World after heheld up a “Trump 2020” sign on the park’s Splash Mountain Ride.Disney World banned Cini for partaking in one of the park’sprohibited activities, which includes unauthorized events, demonstrations or speeches, or the usage of any flag, banner or sign for commercial purposes, or to incite a crowd.The policies also state that any item Disney deems harmful or disruptive is not permitted.“Walt Disney World welcomes all Guests to enjoy our parks; however, demonstrations and the display of signs and banners is not permitted on the premises, a spokesperson for the theme park said. We have previously reminded this guest about our rules.It’s true: Cini made headlines in September after hehung a banner at Magic Kingdom which readRe-Elect Donald J. Trump. Keep America Great. 2020.”At the time, Cini told reporters thathe wanteda viral effect.”There were security guards watching me,”he wrote toNewsweek. “If they wanted me, they could have grabbed me. Now, if they do come after me or ban me, it will be for political reasons, not policy.As for his most current stunt: Cini insists he’s not a rulebreaker.I did not break the rules, he toldThe Washington Post.I was on a ride. I was not inciting a crowd. There was no crowd.He had a slightly different explanation for a Florida news outlet.I wanted to actually abide by their rules, and not hold up a flag to incite a crowd, but I kind of wanted to test them,” he told WFTV. I just really wanted to find out whether or not it had to do with unfurling a flag, or what was written on the flag.Cini took to Facebook to share both a photo of himself on the ride and a note which says he’s been “Trespassed from all of Walt Disney World properties.” The reaction to his Facebook post has been generally positive, with many of his friends and acquaintances lauding him as a “superhero.” Others pointed out that the sign could be a hazard on a fast-moving ride.	Liberal
On November 7, the National Rifle Association excoriated doctors concerned over the public health issue of gun violence for not consulting gun owners for solutions on how to curb the uniquely American epidemic.“Someone should tell self-important anti-gun doctors to stay in their lane,” the NRA tweeted last Wednesday. “Half of the articles in Annals of Internal Medicine are pushing for gun control. Most upsetting, however, the medical community seems to have consulted NO ONE but themselves.”Someone should tell self-important  anti-gun doctors to stay in their lane. Half of the articles in Annals of Internal Medicine are pushing for gun control. Most upsetting, however, the medical community seems to have consulted NO ONE but themselves. https://t.co/oCR3uiLtS7— NRA (@NRA) November 7, 2018The NRA posted theirhostility toward doctors hours after a gunman stormed into a Los Angeles nightclub and murdered 13 people, including one sheriff’s deputy.In the days following the NRA’s tweet, medical professionals have fought back in their own way against NRA badmouthing – by posting photos of bloody clothing and chronicling the devastating consequences they and victims face after having bullets tear through their defenseless bodies, and explaining that, actually, gun violence is very much “their lane.”Dr. Marianne Haughey, an emergency physician and the director of St. Barnabas Hospitals emergency medicine residency program, told the New York Timesin a report published on Tuesday that “its impossible not to bring home” the visceral images she encounters treating victims of gun violence, many of whom are children.I never get used to it,” Haughey said. “Its tiresome.Haughey had decided to target the NRA, from which no representative ever sees the carnage, in a tweet of her own on Friday.“I see no one from the @nra next to me in the trauma bay as I have cared for victims of gun violence for the past 25 years,” Haughey wrote.I see no one from the @nra next to me in the trauma bay as I have cared for victims of gun violence for the past 25 years. THAT must be MY lane. COME INTO MY LANE. Tell one mother her child is dead with me, then we can talk. #StopGunViolence #toomanydead @Jacobi_EM @SBH_EM_Res— marianne haughey (@mthaughey) November 9, 2018We have a front-seat window view that the N.R.A. is trying to close and say, Ignore it,'” Haughey added.In another wrenching tweet to the NRA, Dr. Vancbromicin shared a picture of an operating room filled with debris after a teen was brought in with a gunshot wound to the head.“Surprisingly little blood, but plenty of blood-curdling screams from this middle schoolers mother when we told her that her baby was dead.”Single GSW to the head as a drive by. Surprisingly little blood, but plenty of blood curdling screams from this middle schoolers mother when we told her that her baby was dead. Tell me @NRA how do I get her screams out of my head 4 years later? #ThisIsMyLane #GunControlNow pic.twitter.com/4mtLC5r9Ar— Dr. Vancbromicin (@BromoSouthern) November 12, 2018University of Texas Southwest general surgery resident Dr. Kristin Gee showed her bloody scrubs after treating a gunshot victim.To the @NRA, this is what it looks like to stay in #mylane. We will not be silent about the toll of #gunviolence. I speak out for this patient, for their parents who will never be the same, for every person who came after this one and didnt have to #thisiseveryoneslane pic.twitter.com/B5mo6pC4dV— Kristin Gee, MD (@kmgee9) November 10, 2018Dr. Mahua Dey shared a picture of a bloody bullet she pulled out of a 6-month-old baby’s brain.Bullet I took out of a 6 month olds brain. @NRA you created my lane! #stayinmylane #ThisISMyLane #GunControlNow #Docs4GunSense pic.twitter.com/e54kYX1dBD— Mahua Dey (@Goru78) November 12, 2018A New Jersey trauma surgeon, Dr. Stephanie Bonne, featured a blue chair she uses to inform parents that their child’s life has been extinguished from gunfire.Hey @NRA !  Wanna see my lane? Heres the chair I sit in when I tell parents their kids are dead. How dare you tell me I cant research evidence based solutions. #ThisISMyLane #ThisIsOurLane #thequietroom pic.twitter.com/y7tBAuje8O— Stephanie Bonne (@scrubbedin) November 9, 2018Dr. Jason Smith, a University of Louisville trauma surgeon, shared an image of a bloody operating room floor, though that victim had made it.“This one made it…not sure about the next one,” he said. “Gun violence is a national public health issue. #stayinmylane #StayInYourLane @NRA”This one made it…not sure about the next one. Gun violence is a national public heath issue. #stayinmylane #StayInYourLane @NRA pic.twitter.com/ruxh6wArAK— Jason Smith (@DrJtrauma) November 13, 2018“Can’t post a patient photo, so this is a selfie,” tweeted Dr. Dave Morris of the Intermountain Medical Center in Utah. “This is what it looks like to #stayinmylane. @NRA @JosephSakran”Cant post a patient photo…. so this is a selfie. This is what it looks like to #stayinmylane. @NRA @JosephSakran pic.twitter.com/bVPtXH9oXn— Dave Morris (@traumadmo) November 10, 2018Dr. Nicholas Namias,Chief, Division of Trauma and Surgical Critical Care, University of Miami and Trauma Medical Director, Ryder Trauma Center, Jackson Memorial Hospital, shared a photo of himself standing in a pool of blood in an operating room, treating a victim of gun violence.Hey @NRA, #ThisISMyLane #ThisIsOurLane #thisiseveryoneslane,” he said. “Nobody loses, nobody’s rights are infringed, if we end senseless violent death.”Hey @NRA, #ThisISMyLane #ThisIsOurLane #thisiseveryoneslane Nobody loses, nobody's rights are infringed, if we end senseless violent death. pic.twitter.com/UfrAqkWyE9— Nicholas Namias (@NicholasNamias) November 13, 2018The debate between public officials, medical professionals, and representatives of the gun lobby, specifically the NRA, does not appear to be ending anytime soon.	Liberal
While Americans are used to President Donald Trump publicly lambasting members of his own administration, it seems one official has fallen out of favor with First Lady Melania Trumpand Mrs. Trump is making sure the public knows it.The official in question is Deputy National Security AdvisorMira Ricardel, who reportedly had a dispute with the First Lady’s staff during Mrs. Trump’s recent visit to Africa.Ricardel allegedly berated other White House officials and spread rumors about Secretary of Defense James Mattis, with whom she feuded.While the First Lady is known for keeping a low profile, a statement from her office regarding Ricardel pulled no punches:“It is the position of the Office of the First Lady that [Ricardel] no longer deserves the honor of serving in this White House.”There are conflicting reports as to whether or not the President has heeded his wife’s recommendation and forced Ricardel out.Nonetheless, many appear to be taking Ricardel’s side.Could you imagine the response form the right if Michelle Obama had called for a member of the administration to be fired? pic.twitter.com/W5A1ot2ozO— SageRobinson (@SageRobinson) November 13, 2018Serving this White House is no honor.— Paula Bradford (@pbrad22) November 13, 2018Others were left reeling at just how unprecedented the move of a President ousting a White House official at the demands of the First Lady would be.Yahbut, who gave Melania the job that includes firing cabinet staff? I don't recall her job description including anything other than "be best" or whatever.— TerryInCA (@TerryPullBurd) November 13, 2018Whether Ricardel should be ousted or not, since when does a FLOTUS offer her opinion on something like this??— Sandy Kay (@sandykaykay) November 13, 2018Wait a minute!  Can she do that? pic.twitter.com/6Iu9ju7aiv— Bill Tzamaras (@BillTzamaras) November 13, 2018"It is the position of the Office of the First Lady that (Ricardel) no longer deserves the honor of serving in this White House," first lady's comm director Stephanie Grisham said in a statementSeriously?Now Melania Trump is ordering a firing? https://t.co/ClTezRE0gs— Olga Lautman (@olgaNYC1211) November 13, 2018And that’s just the tip of the iceberg.	Liberal
Voters in Maine learned Tuesday that incumbent Republican Representative Bruce Poliquin filed a lawsuit designed to subvert the will of Maine voters. Many reacted to the news with anger.After years of discussion in the Maine legislature, the people of the state of Maine took ranked choice voting to a people’s referendum voteone where a measure is put on the ballot by citizen petitionand approved it with support from 52 percent of Maine voters. However the Maine Republican Party attempted to block implementation.After the state legislature passed a bill, signed by the Republican Governor, to delay implementation of ranked choice voting, the people of Maine used public support to take the bill before the people for a people’s veto. The voters of Maine reaffirmed their commitment to ranked choice voting.November’s midterm ballots in Maine became the first general election test for ranked choice. The process had already been used in the primaries, although the Maine GOP tried to get a court order to block having to use it in their own primaries. The judge ruled on the side of Maine voters in that case and in others the GOP brought to try to stop the will of Maine voters.Currently, ranked choice voting in Maine is used only for federal offices. The race for US Senate and both of Maine’s two US Congressional districts employed ranked choice on their ballots.Ranked choice allows voters to rank candidates from the favorite to least favorite. Candidates must garner the support of over 50 percent of voters to win. If no one candidate attains the 50 percent mark, the rankings are used to determine which candidate has the support of 50 percent of voters.The system is designed to ensure a ballot with over 2 candidates does not result in a win for the person most voters least want. In a six way race, with traditional voting practices, a person who is the last choice of 83 percent of voters can win with the support of just 17 percent of voters.Maine’s Senate race and 1st Congressional District races were decided in the initial vote tally, as incumbent independent Senator Angus King and incumbent Democratic RepresentativeChellie Pingree handily won their seats with over 50 percent of voters choosing them.However in the 2nd Congressional Districtcovering most of the area of the state in the western, eastern and northern rural areasthe race between Republican incumbent Representative Bruce Poliquin and Democratic challenger Jared Golden remained close, with the lead swapped numerous times, as voting precincts reported their results.As of Tuesday, November 13, Poliquin sits at 46.2 percent and Golden is at 45.5 percent. Only 0.7 percent separates the two candidates, 1,910 votes, with 399 of 418 precincts accounted for. It is still unclear which candidate would win in the old system of voting until all precincts report.But what is clear is neither Poliquin or Golden could reach over 50 percent support from voters. The Secretary of State announced when the results showed neither candidate could reach the required support level, ranked choice voting would commence to determine the winner.However Maine voters were surprised to see a notice on Facebook stating another court case was filed trying to block the will of the people of Maine, who petitioned and voted twice to support the use of ranked choice voting.Reaction to the Secretary of State’s announcement criticized the Maine GOP member Poliquin’s choice to try to block ranked choice voting only after it appeared he may not win in the final tally.People commented that the issue had already been voted on more than once by Maineiacs.People called out Poliquin by name.Others cited the US Constitution as well as the Maine Constitution. Many thanked Maine’s Republican Secretary of State, Matthew Dunlap, for following Maine law.	Liberal
Rebuilding after Hurricane Michael could cost upwards of $4.5 billion. Thats nothing: Hurricane Florence is estimated to cost $50 billion. Hurricane Harvey cost $125 billion. In 2017, 16 separate weather events in the U.S., three of which were the costliest storms on record, cost a cumulative $306.2 billion. Who pays? We all do, in the form of tax dollars and higher insurance premiums. As climate change accelerates and sea levels rise, those costs will only continue to break records and weigh upon society.Some people are questioning the sense of pouring billions into rebuilding efforts in zones that will be targeted again, or that are predicted to be underwater entirely as climate change advances. The Union of Concerned Scientistscalculates that 300,000 coastal homes are located in areas that will experience chronic flooding or be underwater in the next 25 years. By the end of the century, around $912 billion worth of residential property, or 2.4 million homes will be impacted by climate change. Coastal communities will ultimately be displaced, as flooding that doesnt recede after storms forces huge coastal populations to move inland. In the meantime, however, people keep building and rebuilding in floodplains and on fragile coastlines. A year after Hurricane Harvey, one in five new homes in Houston is being built in a floodplain. Even when the future is clear, developers continue to push costly and unsustainable growth in high-risk areas. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) guarantees government payouts in special flood-hazard areas, leading property owners to rebuild a new home on the same vulnerable site multiple times, knowing theyll always get bailed out. Some are calling for change, as the program is currently more than $25 billion in debt (in figures that predate the 2018 hurricane season). More than 30,000 properties that are insured under the program are considered severe repetitive loss properties, which means taxpayers have paid numerous times to rebuild the same house.“Any time you see a major flood or devastating event, a lot of times you may see politicians come in and say, ‘We’re going to rebuild,'” says Chris Hackett, the senior director of personal lines policy at the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America. “That may be very popular at the time, but I think it’s important to maybe take a moment and think about, is it really the best use of resources to rebuild in this exact location after this disaster struck?”Now that may change. The program, which serves more than five million policyholders across the country, is set to expire at the end of November 2018 if lawmakers dont reauthorize it. Critics of the program say it doesnt do enough to discourage building in flood zones or to mitigate risk by requiring building standards that would make buildings more able to withstand severe weather and floods. Others say that privatization is the solution. Private insurance companies would be able to do what the government does not: Discourage building in high-risk areas by charging rates that are in proportion to the risks. However, eliminating the program is politically risky and thus unlikely, with key recipients living in the Carolinas, Florida, Texas, and Alabama. FEMA officials have said that its ongoing mission is to expand this program.	Liberal
White House Chief of Staff John Kelly has reportedly instituted a schedule block for President Donald Trump, complementing the “executive time” the Commander-in-Chief already enjoys on a daily basis.Politico’s Annie Karni tweeted on Tuesday that “policy time” will now be given to the president so he can reflect on the immediate issues facing the administration.A new thing on Trumps private schedule that I havent seen before: in addition to some executive time today, he has two blocks of policy time.— Annie Karni (@anniekarni) November 13, 2018The Washington Post reported in April that Trump’s policy time was the brainchild of Kelly. In it, the president holds “sessions once or twice a day where advisers present and argue their competing views over a specificissue, with Trump presiding.”WaPo noted Kelly “has also implemented bimonthly Cabinet meetings, with a focused agenda, as well as restored order to the morning senior staff meeting,” and that “attendance for most Oval Office meetings is still run through Kellys office.”Josh Dawsey of the Washington Post added in a tweet on Tuesday that policy time “was installed earlier this year to help him focus on issues. A Kelly creation. It sometimes goes better than others.”It was installed earlier this year to help him focus on issues. A Kelly creation. It sometimes goes better than others. https://t.co/z5379rndip https://t.co/SZhoJm4pQR— Josh Dawsey (@jdawsey1) November 13, 2018What will Trump actually be doing?Executive time = twitter hours in bedPolicy Time = twitter hours on the potty— MikeB (@M_Bauldree) November 13, 2018enough already @realDonaldTrump btw, is this your Executive Time or Policy Time stuff?#AdultDaycare pic.twitter.com/tqu2dWrM8G— CountryTisOfThee (@TheWillowtree6) November 13, 2018That's where they try to drill him the difference between Baltics and Balkans— Kathleen Taylor (@MoreFatGramma) November 13, 2018Bouncy room followed by 5 Big Macs, then nappy, nappy.— rodney ball jr (@rodball22) November 13, 2018Executive time = twitter hours in bedPolicy Time = twitter hours on the potty— MikeB (@M_Bauldree) November 13, 2018Currently, Trump uses “executive time” to watch Fox News and conduct personal business.	Liberal
In the aftermath of the 2018 midterms, it hasn’t been abnormal to see losing Republicans — or Republicans whose victories are yet to be certain — rail against their Democratic opponents and the electoral process as a whole. Rick Scott is currently doing this in Florida and President Donald Trump is echoing his sentiments.That may be why Martha McSally, the Republican candidate in Arizona’s senate election, received widespread praise for doing what – until 2018 – was expected of a losing candidate in any American election: she gracefully conceded.After calling to concede to Democratic opponent Kyrsten Sinema, McSally said:“I wish her all success as she represents Arizona in the Senate…I am convinced that Arizona is the best state in the country and our best days are still yet to come and I’m going to continue to pray for our success.”You can watch her concession in the video below.Congrats to @kyrstensinema. I wish her success. Im grateful to all those who supported me in this journey. Im inspired by Arizonans spirit and our states best days are ahead of us. pic.twitter.com/tw0uKgi3oO— McSally For Senate (@MarthaMcSally) November 13, 2018Settled in her home with an adoring Golden Retriever beside her, it was a concession that could have been painted by Norman Rockwell. Yet, despite the concession, some aren’t convinced we’ve seen the last of Martha McSally.The death of former Republican Arizona Senator John McCain earlier this year led to Republican John Kyle filling the newly-vacated seat. However, Kyl has said he only intends to serve until 2019, leaving Arizona Governor Doug Ducey the prerogative to appoint Kyl’s replacement. Under Arizona state law, Ducey must select someone from McCain’s party, with many asking who better to appoint than a Republican Senatorial candidate who won nearly half of Arizona’s vote?Suddenly, people seem to know why McSally went so gently that good night.Rumor has it that Jon Kyl is going back into retirement and Governor Ducey will name McSally to fill out the remainder of McCains term.  #longlivetheswamp— Gary Davis (@revgaryd26) November 13, 2018With Sinema winning AZ Senate race, expect immediate chatter about AZ Gov Ducey potentially appointing McSally to Senate once Kyl steps down from seat he was appointed to after McCain died— Chad Pergram (@ChadPergram) November 13, 2018McSally is revving her engines for McCain's seat. #TheView— Deborah Bee (@BeeQueenbee60) November 13, 2018McSally knows she will be appoonted to McCain's seat.— Kentucky Not Kochtucky (@kochtucky) November 13, 2018But a graceful concession hasn’t been enough to convince McSally’s critics of her political integrity.	Liberal
CNN has filed a lawsuit against President Donald Trump, members of his immediate staff and the United States Secret Service less than one week after Trump revoked the press pass of CNN’s chief White House correspondent Jim Acosta.In a statement Tuesday morning, CNN laid out the basics of its complaint.“CNN filed a lawsuit against the Trump Administration this morning in DC District Court,” the statement read. “It demands the return of the White House credentials of CNN’s Chief White House correspondent, Jim Acosta. The wrongful revocation of these credentials violates CNN and Acosta’s First Amendment rights of freedom of the press and their Fifth Amendment rights to due process. We have asked this court for an immediate restraining order requiring the pass be returned to Jim, and will seek permanent relief as part of this process.”This morning, CNN filed a lawsuit against @realDonaldTrump and top aides. The White House has violated CNN and @Acosta's First Amendment rights of freedom of the press and Fifth Amendment rights to due process. Complaint: https://t.co/43oX6L8xA7 pic.twitter.com/RvJ0Cgh6oi— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 13, 2018The defendants in the suit are President Donald J. Trump, White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly, White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications William Shine, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the United States Secret Service, Secret Service Director Randolph Alles, and Secret Service Agent John Doe.The 18-pagecomplaint, filed at the United States District Court in Washington D.C., charges violations of Acosta’s First and Fifth Amendment rights as well as breaches of the Administrative Procedure Act.The president disliking CNN is not grounds for dismissal of its reporters.Irreparable harm under the First Amendment: “Defendants have deprived Plaintiffs of their right to access the White House grounds by revoking Acostas White House credentials. Without those credentials, Acosta cannot access the White House and cannot effectively serve as a White House correspondent, thus depriving Plaintiff CNN of its chief White House correspondent.”No notice as given nor were Acosta or CNN given the opportunity to defend themselves.Irreparable harm under the Fifth Amendment: “Defendants decision to revoke Acostas press credentials violates the Fifth Amendment right to due process.”Because:“Neither the White House nor the Secret Service has provided Acosta any formal notice of the reasons for, opportunity to be heard regarding, or opportunity to challenge, the decision to revoke his hard pass.”The Secret Service broke the law when it unilaterally revoked Acosta’s press credentials.“Defendants had no legal or rational justification to revoke Acostas credentials,” the third cause of action states. “The only justification they provided publiclythat Acosta plac[ed] his hands on a stafferis not accurate, and the other stated justificationthat Acosta failed to treat the White House and the Office of the Presidency with sufficient respectis not sufficient as a matter of law.”And:“By revoking Acostas White House press credentials solely based on Plaintiffs viewpoint, the content of their speech, and their protected First Amendment activity and by affording Acosta no process to contest this decision, Defendants infringed Plaintiffs First and Fifth Amendment rights, in violation of 5 U.S.C.  706(2)(D).”CNN asks the court to immediately restore Acosta’s press credentials “pending due process,” a “declaration” that the revocation was unconstitutional and a violation of the Administrative Procedure Act, and that the defendants pay CNN’s legal fees.CNN argues that without his press pass, Acosta cannot do his job and CNN cannot deliver full coverage of the news to its viewers. This was made apparent again over the weekend when the White House denied reinstating Acosta’s privileges so he could cover Trump’s trip to Paris to commemorate the 100-year anniversary of the end of World War I.Theodore Boutrous, one of the two lawyers representing the plaintiffs, emphasized the danger posed by Trump’s actions against Acosta.“If left unchallenged,” Boutrous wrote, “the actions of the White House would create a dangerous chilling effect for any journalist who covers our elected officials.”Statement from @BoutrousTed, attorney for CNN & @Acosta: pic.twitter.com/tFMgM1AIEZ— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 13, 2018The White House responded to the lawsuit Tuesday morning. Sanders said in a statement that CNN is “grandstanding” and that the administration will “vigorously defend itself.”We have been advised that CNN has filed a complaint challenging the suspension of Jim Acostas hard pass. This is just more grandstanding from CNN, and we will vigorously defend against this lawsuit.”“CNN, who has nearly 50 additional hard pass holders, and Mr. Acosta is no more or less special than any other media outlet or reporter with respect to the First Amendment. After Mr. Acosta asked the President two questionseach of which the President answeredhe physically refused to surrender a White House microphone to an intern, so that other reporters might ask their questions. This was not the first time this reporter has inappropriately refused to yield to other reporters.”“The White House cannot run an orderly and fair press conference when a reporter acts this way, which is neither appropriate nor professional. The First Amendment is not served when a single reporter, of more than 150 present, attempts to monopolize the floor. If there is no check on this type of behavior it impedes the ability of the President, the White House staff, and members of the media to conduct business.Ted Olson, the other attorney for CNN and Acosta, said in a statement that the White House’s actions were plainly unconstitutional.Statement from Ted Olson, attorney for CNN and @Acosta: pic.twitter.com/hYf8yjoWqw— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 13, 2018George Freeman, Executive Director of the Media Law Resource Center, also weighed in on the case.“CNN has a very strong case,” Freeman said. Acosta was banned “clearly because the president doesn’t like the questions Acosta has raised and the viewpoints articulated by CNN.”George Freeman, Executive Director of the @MediaLawMLRC weighs in: "CNN has a very strong case." Full statement: pic.twitter.com/ZmqrmsGe8H— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 13, 2018The lawsuit, the first of its kind, is the culmination of a years-long contentious relationship between Trump and CNN."CNN vs. The President of The United States"This will be a movie one day.— Braxton (@braxtonryn) November 13, 2018How’d we get here?	Liberal
After flipping the House of Representatives from red to blue in the 2018 midterm elections, Democrats vowed to tackle voter suppression as their first act. The midterm elections were fraught with charges of voter suppression in several states including North Dakota, Florida, Georgia and Ohio.Some went to court and prevailed on the side of voting rights while others upheld attempts to suppress largely minority voting rights.In response, House Dems plan to strengthen the Voting Rights Act weakened due to a Supreme Court decision gutting the Voting Rights Act. Democrats also plan to institute automatic voter registration.The bill would establish automatic voter registration and reinvigorate the Voting Rights Act, crippled by a Supreme Court decision in 2013. It would take away redistricting power from state legislatures and give it to independent commissions. https://t.co/1ZuEOWDefO Resistbot (@resistbot) November 13, 2018Other provisions would overturn the Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling, which declared political spending is First Amendment free speech; they would mandate more disclosure of outside money and establish a public financing match for small contributions. Resistbot (@resistbot) November 13, 2018I cant wait for the @SenateGOP to vote against automatic voter registration. Presently, one party is trying to expand democracy and civic participation, and the other is presently trying to block military and overseas ballots from being counted at all in Florida. ?? Resistbot (@resistbot) November 13, 2018Elijah Cummings says “voter suppression” is an oversight priority for House Democrats: “We cannot have a country where it becomes normal to do everything in folks power to stop people from voting.” (via ABC) pic.twitter.com/kdvYFSPjBg Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 11, 2018As of October 2018, eight states and the District of Columbia provide automatic voter registration to their residents. Maryland, New Jersey, Washington and Massachusetts also plan to implement automatic registration.Seventeen states and Washington DC allow same day voter registration, meaning voters can register and vote on the same day and often in the same place. Automatic voter registration would reduce the number of voters needing to register in each election cycle dramatically.Many of the states that use automatic voter registration do it through their Department of Motor Vehicles and issuance of driver’s licenses and state IDs. Unless a resident opts-out of registering to vote, they are automatically registered when their license or ID is issued.After public outcry over voter suppression efforts in the 2018 midterms, the public support for the voting rights reforms Democrats propose ran high.Voter suppression, perhaps more than any other force in our politics, prevents this nation from becoming a representative democracy. We need automatic voter registration, and a strengthened Voting Rights Act, yesterday. This is the exact right thing to do. https://t.co/SmLglUFDKj Jamil Smith (@JamilSmith) November 13, 2018Good morning.Florida Republicans write laws to deny the right to vote to 20% of African-Americans.They gerrymander districts to disenfrachnce Democrats.Their Congressmen in DC fight against the Voting Rights Act.FYI theres only one party cheating in Florida. Chris Murphy (@ChrisMurphyCT) November 11, 2018Some bad shit did happen in this and all elections: 1. Voter Suppression 2. A dysfunctional electorial process and map 3. Racism 4. Gerrymandered Districts. All this leads to a dysfunctional democracy. We must continue to work very hard to fix this! Drew Xray (@drew_xray) November 13, 2018People decried voter suppression efforts days after the election.	Liberal
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted a news story claiming that “Nearly 200,000 Florida Voters May Not Be Citizens.”“Amazing, but not shocking at all anymore,” he wrote.But there were two problems with the tweet. The first: The story is from 2012. The second: The story begins with an editor’s note which notes that the piece has been fact checkedand amended by editors.Amazing, but not shocking at all anymore. Nearly 200,000 Florida Voters May Not Be Citizens https://t.co/8HiObPLeeM via @nbc6— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) November 12, 2018The story, by NBC Miami writer Gary Fineout, is dated May 11, 2012.“Florida officials are now saying that nearly 200,000 registered voters may not be U.S. citizens,” it begins. “Earlier in the week,state election officials announced they had identified more than 2,600 peoplewho are in Florida legally but ineligible to vote.”And yet, right above that first paragraph is an editor’s note dated November 12, 2018, which appears to have missed Trump Jr.’s eyes. It reads:“The initial list of 180,000 names was whittled to 2,625, according to the Florida Department of State. The state then checked a federal database and stated it found 207 noncitizens on the rolls (not necessarily voting but on the rolls). That list was sent to county election supervisors to check and it also turned out to contain errors. An Aug. 1, 2012, state elections document showed only 85 noncitizens were ultimately removed from the rolls out of a total of about 12 million voters at that time.”Trump Jr., who has a history of tweeting misleading news stories, was resoundinglymocked.Hey Junior, do you ever read the shit you post?First off, the headline that suckered you in was deceptive and inaccurate.But the BEST part, was how your repost of a 6 year old story begins with a correction informing anyone who bothers to read it that the actual number is 85. pic.twitter.com/Zmv6g6aMBj— (((Neil Kaplan))) (@NeKap) November 13, 2018Youre just like your dumbass daddy and cant read, can you?The article clearly says the 200K number is wrong and only 85 noncitizens were ultimately removed from the rolls out of a total of about 12 million voters at that time. You can brush up in your reading skills in prison— Lesley Abravanel (@lesleyabravanel) November 13, 2018Donald Trump Jr. tweets 6-year-old article thats already been debunked  it was only 85 people, not 200,000  and pretends the article is about todays recountin Florida. ITS SIX YEARS OLD, AND DEBUNKED!I count the days until the indictment. https://t.co/y638Z1p7HP— John Aravosis  (@aravosis) November 13, 2018You didnt read the article, did you? Oops.Junior remains the self-own champion of 2018.— CantStopTheSignal (@send_the_signal) November 13, 2018This is from 2012. It was fake then, it's fake and outdated now.— Mommy Mouth (@Mommy_Mouth3) November 13, 2018	Liberal
A photo of roughly 50 boys giving a Nazi salute in front of the Sauk County Courthouse in Baraboo, Wisconsin emerged online on Sunday, and it is drawing condemnation from all over the world.The picture was reportedly taken at the students’ junior prom earlier this year.We even got the black kid to throw it up #BarabooProud, a tweet containing the picture read. After being shared thousands of times, the tweet has since been deleted, but the image lives on online.If anybody from Baraboo High School in Wisconsin can clue me in on why it appears the entire male class of 2018 is throwing up a Sig Heil during their prom photos – that would be great.h/t @CarlySidey pic.twitter.com/BL8lDVLMA4— Jules Suzdaltsev (@jules_su) November 12, 2018And on Monday, it even drew the outrage and condemnation of one the most prominent Holocaust memorials in the world – the Auschwitz Memorial Museum.In a powerful tweet, The Auschwitz Memorial Museum, which is dedicated to the memory of the more than 1,000,000 Jews that were murdered at the infamous death camp in Poland, warned against the dangers of “normalizing and accommodatinghatred.”“It is so hard to find words,” the Auschwitz Memorial wrote. “This is why every single day we work hard to educate. We need to explain what is the danger of hateful ideology rising. Auschwitz with its gas chambers was at the very end of the long process of normalizing and accommodating hatred.”It is so hard to find words… This is why every single day we work hard to educate. We need to explain what is the danger of hateful ideology rising. Auschwitz with its gas chambers was at the very end of the long process of normalizing and accommodating hatred. https://t.co/13AzZaMGJR— Auschwitz Memorial (@AuschwitzMuseum) November 12, 2018The Auschwitz Memorial also urged readers to consider the consequences of hate speech by visiting their website.If @barabooSD wishes to know more about what can be the extreme result of normalization of hatred – and hatred is enrolled in this symbol – please see some online lessons dedicated to the history of Auschwitz: https://t.co/M1VC8b8Jlj— Auschwitz Memorial (@AuschwitzMuseum) November 12, 2018Most students in the group appear to have raised their hands in the Sieg Heil gesture.But Jordan Blue, one boy without his arm outstretched, said in an interview with Jules Suzdaltsev that the salute made him “uncomfortable.” He also said the photographer was “telling us to make the sign” and that the other boys had bullied him “since entering middle school.”I spoke with the only student who is visibly not comfortable with the salute, he provided this statement. pic.twitter.com/HbNBc8xLOK— Jules Suzdaltsev (@jules_su) November 12, 2018Suzdaltsev later said he is “being flooded with messages from students of this school about some of the guys in the group photo,” adding that “it sounds like there is a lot of racist bullying and the school tends to do nothing about it.”This kid will change the world.  pic.twitter.com/Ht32xTzwP3— Cory Erickson (@CoryErickson12) November 12, 2018Blue’s refusal to participate reminded one Twitter user of a similar instance in this country in the 1930’s.If history has taught us anything, it is to be the citizen that stands against Hate. Hate is a learned trait, we are not born hateful. pic.twitter.com/HPMrTQZLcA— Firesnapper999 (@Firesnapper999) November 12, 2018In an interview with Newsweek,Baraboo High School Principal Brett Bildsten said that the matter is being investigated: “The District is investigating at this time to determine who is allin the photo.”The Baraboo School District is also working to determine the identities of the students in the picture.The Baraboo School District sent the following letter to parents this morning in response to a photo circulating on social media. We are launching an investigation, and as such, are unable to provide additional details at this time. pic.twitter.com/oRxcl82lJT— Baraboo Schools (@barabooSD) November 12, 2018SuperintendentDr. Lori Mueller in a letter to parents acknowledged that the students were making an “inappropriate gesture.”One person noted that the Baraboo School District’s symbol is eerily familiar.Your school symbol looks like a Nazi war eagle wtf even pic.twitter.com/wzn0Q0Xksw— DUSK is out Dec 10th (@DaveOshry) November 12, 2018Have you seen the school emblem?On its own it might be just happenstance, but after the things we're hearing about the school, the teachers, the parents and the man responsible for taking this photo, that's becoming less plausible.— Robbie Wallis (@Robbie_Wallis1) November 12, 2018Condemnation of the students’ crass embrace of one of the most powerful symbols of hate flooded Twitter on Monday.	Liberal
Many have noticed that these are dark, divisive days in American politics in which bitterness and misinformation are quickly becoming defining values.Few embody this needless antagonism like conservative commentator Tomi Lahren, whose attacks on everyone fromColin Kaepernick toRep. Joe Kennedyto Kathy Griffinhave earned her strong admiration from Republicanswhich is only matched by detestation from Democrats.Today, Tomi Lahrenyet againtried it, this time aiming her ire at former First Lady Michelle Obama.An excerpt of Mrs. Obama’s upcoming memoir Becoming was released on Monday in which she tells of how she felt watching Donald Trump get inaugurated on that fateful day in January 2017:“Someone from Barack’s administration might have said that the optics there were bad, that what the public saw didn’t reflect the President’s reality or ideals, but in this case, maybe it did. Realizing it, I made my own optic adjustment. I stopped even trying to smile.”Despite the fact that many Americans could relate to Obama’s feelings, Lahren still couldn’t help herself, tweeting:Michelle Obama wrote she was unable to put on a happy face and smile during President Donald Trump's inauguration. Thats okay, we all smiled watching you and your husband vacate the White House. Bye!— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) November 12, 2018And Twitter users immediately took her to task.She's smiling all the way to the bank with her sold out book tour. I doubt she's worried about what a low level FOX buffoon has to say. BTW the President Obama left office as the 12th greatest President, Trump will leave as the worst and most corrupt!— Troy L Dorch (@DorchTroy) November 12, 2018That's merely because you're a time proven idiot, Tomi. Is the "we" you're referring to the voices in your head encouraging you to be even more blatantly incompetent in the hopes of landing a full-time gig on Faux News instead of their "streaming" option?— Darren Lewis (@HalfEvilD) November 12, 2018OH, MY GOD. YOU READ A BOOK???? I AM SO PROUD OF YOU.— Alana Dill (@alanapaints) November 12, 2018Many made it clear that no one was smiling.Not even close to We, but nice try, Tomi. Your distain for her is one of two thing: racism or jealousy. Im going with both.— Dana Goldberg (@DGComedy) November 12, 2018Given that Trump LOST the popular vote, I think it's a stretch to believe you "all" were smiling.— Kale Robinson (@kalerob22) November 12, 2018If by we all you mean just you – then yes I agree— reyna (@reynareyes1122) November 12, 2018This isn’t the first time Tomi Lahren has used her platform to spew pettiness against those who have achieved infinitely more than she has. It isn’t even the first time she’s come after the former First Lady.	Liberal
The French almost certainly trolled President Donald Trump just days after he canceleda planned visit to theAisne-Marne American Cemetery to commemorate U.S. soldiers who perished in World War I. Trump’s team claimed that inclement weather scuttled the president’s plans.There is rain, but it does not matter, the French army wrote on Twitter. “We remain motivated. Accompanying the post: A photo of a rain-soaked recruit crawling through an obstacle course.#MondayMotivation Il y a de la pluie, mais c'est pas grave On reste motiv  pic.twitter.com/29hOJ9ITF0— Arme de Terre (@armeedeterre) November 12, 2018The French army’s slight dig at the U.S. president quickly took social media by storm.French army making fun of Trump. Making America laughable again. https://t.co/NwRmHd6J5d— Thomas E. Ricks (@tomricks1) November 12, 2018The French Army trolls Trumps aversion to rain…  https://t.co/v3hOSEDbRt— Billy Baldwin (@BillyBaldwin) November 12, 2018OMG. This is an epic level of trolling from the French Army. My rough (very basic level of French) translation: "There is rain, but no matter. We stay motivated" .@realdonaldtrump is a complete embarrassment. #VeteransDay18 https://t.co/NLJqeCDAC4— Arti (@ajpeddakotla) November 12, 2018Hilarious…French army trolls @realDonaldTrump for being frightened of the rain#rain https://t.co/tlc6Ae7j8X— Catherine Reed (@CaReedArtist) November 12, 2018Too precious:French army takes jab at #Trump over his decision to skip an #Armistice100 cemetery visit in the country over the weekend due to rain:"There is rain, but it's nothing serious We stay motivated "https://t.co/zqi7fm2BjU pic.twitter.com/j4lQxisHLC— George Shiber (@GeorgeShiber) November 12, 2018The White House canceled Trump’s visit after White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders determined that weather conditions provided “near-zero visibility,” complicating matters for the president, who would have arrived aboard the presidential helicopter Marine One.President Trump did not want to cause that kind of unexpected disruption to the city and its people, Sanders said.New statement from @PressSec says Trump did not want to cause the unexpected disruption of a last minute motorcade yesterday pic.twitter.com/aPAc5sEkqe— Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) November 12, 2018Trump was further criticized for not joining other world leaders who arrived by car.Neither a devastating hurricane in Florida nor mass murder in a synagogue in Pittsburgh would cause Trump to cancel his rallies,but he cancelled a trip to the cemetery in Paris,where American veterans are interred, because of a little drizzle.The real world leaders made the trip.— Nancy Anne Merwin (@nancym284) November 12, 2018On the Marine Corps birthday, Trump chose to cancel a scheduled visit to a US cemetery in France around 100th anniversary of end of World War I to honor the brave & fallen who gave their lives for this country, because it was raining.  Trump is not a patriot & dishonors us all. pic.twitter.com/Ho4IljlyL8— Ron Waxman (@RonWaxman) November 10, 2018As disgraceful as it was yesterday for Trump to cancel his visit to a cemetery to commemorate the loss of U.S. soldiers in World War I, it's also disgraceful that he's surrounded himself with such piss-poor people that no one had the balls to tell him, "Sir, you must go." #AMJoy— LaurenBaratzLogsted (@LaurenBaratzL) November 11, 2018“The cemetery is 50 miles northeast of Paris, and it was not clear why alternative routes  commonly planned for high-profile events  were not used in this case,”The Washington Post‘s Alex Horton noted.As Ben Rhodes,who served as former President Barack Obama’s Deputy National Security Advisorfor Strategic Communications, observed: “There is always a rain option. Always.”I helped plan all of President Obamas trips for 8 years. There is always a rain option. Always. https://t.co/exZNlONQOp— Ben Rhodes (@brhodes) November 10, 2018	Liberal
After a campaign, whether a candidate wins or loses, they usually thank their campaign workers and supporters in some way. But an email sent by Democratic Texas Senate candidate Beto O’Rourke drew extra attention.In an email to his supporters, O’Rourke begins by telling people about his day at home with his family, writing that the children and his wife are in the next room watching a movie as he types. O’Rourke talks of the joy from the mundane bits of everyday life that one only misses when they are not a part of daily life because of work or a political campaign.But then he goes on to write:“Already miss the road. Miss our team and our volunteers that we’d see in every city, every town. Miss the energy and smiles and joy I found all over Texas.”“Miss the purpose, the goal. Miss being part of something so much bigger than me or my life. Organized for a common cause and end.”“We were all together, really together. Never felt anything like that.”O’Rourke added:“While there is loss, I also feel intense gratitude, waves of it every day. How was I so lucky to be part of something so amazing?”“I can close my eyes and see so many faces and smiles. Hear the laughing and the cheering. I can see us hopeful and connecting as we shook one another’s hand, looking at each other and nodding, knowing.”“All the stories that have been shared with me, all part of me. Every gift and kindness, every word of encouragement. Every bit of faith in what we had set ourselves to.”“We were doing this for one another, doing this the right way, doing this for our country at what we all know to be a defining moment of truth.”Laura Olin shared O’Rourke’s message on Twitter, calling it “one for the ages.”While there is loss, I also feel intense gratitude, waves of it every day. How was I so lucky to be part of something so amazing?Betos thank-you email is one for the ages. pic.twitter.com/md2wDDpdUs laura olin (@lauraolin) November 12, 2018That humility, gratitude, and the knowledge that it wasnt about himit was about a group of people calling for change, togetherare what made Obama so special and its all here too. laura olin (@lauraolin) November 12, 2018Other supporters also felt it needed to be shared with the world.In case youre not on Betos emailing list. He just sent out an email to all who supported him. Thank you @BetoORourke, I hope to have the honor of working for another one of your campaigns in the future. ????#BetoORourke #Beto pic.twitter.com/8vKPUNlojm Omar Flores (@OmarFlores3) November 11, 2018Many agreed with Olin’s assessment.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Monday demanded Florida stop its recount after last week’s close gubernatorial and Senate races.Trump, without evidence, tweeted that “large numbers of new ballots showed up out of nowhere” and that “many ballots are missing or forged.” He insisted that the Republican candidates he endorsed – Rick Scott for Senate and Ron DeSantis for governor – immediately be declared the winners.The Florida Election should be called in favor of Rick Scott and Ron DeSantis in that large numbers of new ballots showed up out of nowhere, and many ballots are missing or forged. An honest vote count is no longer possible-ballots massively infected. Must go with Election Night!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 12, 2018Democrat Andrew Gillum, the Tallahassee mayor vying to be Florida’s first black governor, responded to Trump.“You sound nervous,” Gillum tweeted to the president.You sound nervous.#CountEveryVote https://t.co/9kRvTqUmwM— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) November 12, 2018People were here for it.Man, you really know how to clap back. We love it! #BringItHome— JaelY007 (@Y007Jael) November 12, 2018Mr. Gillum, thanks for having the cojones to stand up for what is right.— Fiona Adorno (@FionaAdorno) November 12, 2018Mr. Gillum, Im heartened everyday by your exceptional character. Youve been a class act during your campaign and especially during the wait for final results. I wish all those involved followed your example. Your parents & grandparents would be so proud! Great example for kids!— ChrisVC (@Chris_V_C_M) November 12, 2018Of course, Trump is nervous.Cheaters are always nervous. Karma will catch up to him. I guarantee it…— S. Hattar-all things political (@shattar0429) November 12, 2018He is nervous. So are Scott, Rubio and DeSantis. I want every vote counted even if this costs our side the election.— Sean Flanagan (@seanflanagan43) November 12, 2018Ha, he is nervous! He cant stand democracy. You know if the tables were turned he would want every voted counted. #CountEveryVote— Brenda (Enlightened Path) (@resistPOTUSnow) November 12, 2018He should be.I have always found most habitual liars tend to project their misdeeds upon others. Kind of like a red herringI wonder how much tampering he's personally overseen (Drumpf)It's scary how brazen he is— Mobius (@Mobius___Strip) November 12, 2018I really dont know why Donny is so worked up about the recount. A recount doesnt go in favour of any political party it just makes sure every American has their votes counted. This is a democracy— Wesley Chambers (@Wes_Chambers22) November 12, 2018Bingo!!— TinkerBitch  (@TinkerBitch68) November 12, 2018We don't "call elections" we count votes. Crazy I know.— Paleoprof (@Paleoprof) November 12, 2018As of Tuesday night, it did not appear Gillum would be able to overtake his vote deficit, and so conceded the race toDeSantis.Now, he has a different message to his supporters:	Liberal
World leaders gathered in France over the weekend to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armistice signed between the Allied Forces of WWI and Germany on November 11, 1918. Celebrated as Armistice Day, in the United States, the day became known as Veterans’ Day to recognize all veterans of all conflicts.President Donald Trump attended some of the events at the gathering, although he drew heavy criticism for skipping a visit toAisne-Marne American Cemetery and walking the Champs-lyses with other world leaders. The White House initially cited weather and logistics, but later changed the story to shift blame onto the Secret Service for grounding the President’s helicopter.Other world leaders and a US delegation led by retired general and Chief of Staff John Kelly drove the 90 minutes toAisne-Marne American Cemetery to pay their respects to US soldiers and Marines buried in France.One event Trump did attend, along with Russian President Vladimir Putin, was a gathering at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. French President Emmanuel Macron addressed the gathered leaders.In what many see as a direct rebuke of the recent rhetoric of President Trump, Macron denounced nationalism, warning against “old demons coming back to wreak chaos and death.” He advised world leaders to reject the “selfishness of nations only looking after their own interests.”The French President then stated:“Because patriotism is exactly the opposite of nationalism.”“By putting our own interests first, with no regard to others, we erase the very thing that a nation holds dearest, and the thing that keeps it alive: its moral values.”Macron repeated his statement on Twitter, in French and in English.Patriotism is the exact opposite of nationalism. Nationalism is a betrayal of patriotism. By putting our own interests first, with no regard for others, we erase the very thing that a nation holds dearest, and the thing that keeps it alive: its moral values. https://t.co/w9AltyvMDw Emmanuel Macron (@EmmanuelMacron) November 11, 2018Watch his remarks here.“Nationalism is a betrayal of patriotism”: French President Emmanuel Macron denounced nationalism in front of President Trump and other world leaders at an Armistice Day ceremony in Paris. https://t.co/SzzPFyMI1S pic.twitter.com/aQysyeaCDr CBS News (@CBSNews) November 11, 2018President Trump has yet to directly respond to Macron’s remarks. But plenty of other people did.	Liberal
A video surfaced over the weekend of Mississippi Republican Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith joking that she would have accepted an invitation to a public hanging from a supporter.The clip shows Smith getting introduced to a crowd by local cattle rancher Colin Hutchinson, while standing in front of a statue of Elvis Presley in his hometown of Tupelo, Mississippi.“If he invited me to a public hanging,” Smith said of Hutchinson, “I’d be on the front row.”Watch the video below:"If he invited me to a public hanging, I'd be on the front row"- Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith says in Tupelo, MS after Colin Hutchinson, cattle rancher, praises her. Hyde-Smith is in a runoff on Nov 27th against Mike Espy. pic.twitter.com/0a9jOEjokr— Lamar White, Jr. (@LamarWhiteJr) November 11, 2018“There’s no excuse to say what she said,”Lamar White Jr. of The Bayou Brief, who published the video, told the Associated Press.Hyde-Smith was appointed to the U.S. Senate in April and facesDemocrat Mike Espy, Mississippi’s first black post-Reconstruction Congressman, in a runoff election on November 27. Smith and Espy both received 41 percent of the vote in the November 6 midterms.Smith’s remarks were swiftly condemned on Sunday after the video went viral.“Cindy Hyde-Smith’s comments are reprehensible,” Espy campaign spokesman Danny Blanton said. “They have no place in our political discourse, in Mississippi, or our country. We need leaders, not dividers, and her words show that she lacks the understanding and judgment to represent the people of our state.”Below is the Espy for Senate Campaign statement on Cindy Hyde-Smith's "public hanging" comments: pic.twitter.com/zccgQelDWt— Mike Espy (@espyforsenate) November 11, 2018Hyde-Smith, however, has not apologized for her remarks and insists her comments were blown out of proportion.“I referred to accepting an invitation to a speaking engagement,” Hyde-Smith said in a statement Sunday. “In referencing the one who invited me, I used an exaggerated expression of regard, and any attempt to turn this into a negative connotation is ridiculous.”Twitter exploded in response to Hyde Smith’s comments.The fact that the crowd expressed genuine laughter is disturbing.And her crowd of Republican supporters laughed and applauded at her joke about the public hanging.— Jon Cooper  (@joncoopertweets) November 12, 2018I wanna be surprised but I cant be anymore.— what would beanie sigel do? (@Katchin05) November 11, 2018What's worse? The fact she said what she did or the fact the crowd clapped for her in approval. We can't be Non Racist white humans when it's just white humans around and then when black and brown humans are around say we aren't white supremacist. That's not how this works. — Lee Brown (@LeeBrown1273) November 11, 2018Deplorable.This is why they are, in fact, deplorable.— LaneBrooks (@lanebrooks) November 12, 2018I'd imagine it's dog-whistling.— BarbtteTeamPelosi (@barbetta1) November 12, 2018“Racist and sick.”If it werent in Cindy Hyde Smiths mind, she wouldnt say it. She could have said shed go to Mars to speak if invited. But instead she chose the image of a hanging. Racist and sick.— Jan Girando (@jgirando) November 12, 2018Doug Stafford, thechief strategist for Senator Rand Paul (R-KY)’s PAC, was flabbergasted.What the hell. https://t.co/8bgrpi1ZEI— Doug Stafford (@dougstafford) November 11, 2018There’s a word for public hangings – lynching.I am trying to remember the word they used to use in Mississippi for public hangings…..it starts with an L.— Norman Ornstein (@NormOrnstein) November 11, 2018Democratic strategist Keith Boykin posted a photo of what Hyde-Smith said she wanted to witness.Mississippi Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith said recently she'd be "in the front row" of "a public hanging." She's now in a runoff election on Nov. 27 against Mike Espy, a black man.This is what it looked like when white people stood in the front rows of public hangings in the past. pic.twitter.com/zIgaI1LH4R— Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) November 11, 2018A history teacher noted that the last public lynching in Hyde-Smith’s home of Brookhaven,which she represented in the state Senate, took place in 1928.	Liberal
President Donald Trump and Russian leader Vladimir Putin shared a warm greeting at an event in Paris, France, to mark 100 years since the armistice that ended World War I.The two men, whom U.S. intelligence agencies believe together conspired to subvert the 2016 presidential election, arrived separately from the other heads of state whotook part in the commemorations, although Trump was already in attendance when Putin arrived, and was caught beaming at the sight of the Russian president.Putin’s appearance wasthe only moment Trump brightened up, wrote Julian Borger forThe Guardian.He flashed a goofy smile, all the more noticeable alongside Macron and Merkel who had switched their demeanour to steel resolve on spotting the Russian leader.Trump was called out by journalists who posted photographs from the event showing Trump’s beaming smile as Putin greeted him, Merkel, and Macron.Putin murders journalists & opponents, recently used a nerve agent to assassinate a dissident on British soil, annexed Crimea, facilitates war crimes, and attacked American democracy. This is how Trump reacted when he saw him (notice the difference with Macron/Merkel) pic.twitter.com/VzCSGcuWVR— Brian Klaas (@brianklaas) November 11, 2018Find someone who looks at you the way Trump looks at Putin. pic.twitter.com/5TO3eFoUFz— David Schneider (@davidschneider) November 11, 2018The admiration seemed to go both ways.Video from the event shows that Putin greeted Merkel and Macron with handshakes, but that Trump received “a thumbs-up and a friendly pat, too,” according to formerNew York Times and NBC political analystAnand Giridharadas.Macron, Merkel and Trump get handshakes from Putin.But only Trump gets a thumbs-up and a friendly pat, too. #ArmisticeDay100 pic.twitter.com/NvYvSD5FRg— Anand Giridharadas (@AnandWrites) November 11, 2018Here it is again:via GIPHYTrump and Putin were going to have a one-on-one meeting in Paris, but those plans were scuttled amid Macron’s concerns that the meeting would overshadow the Armistice Day commemorations. Putin later told Russian state media that he did find time to talk to Trump in Paris.The ceremonies marked the first time the two men had met since a controversialface to face meeting in Helsinki over the summer.The Helsinki meeting was widely criticized, particularly after Trump sided with Putin over assessments from the United States intelligence community that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election.	Liberal
After Tuesday’s election ushered in a wave of new Democratic House members who are more diverse than ever before, The New Yorker unveiled next week’s cover, which captures that historic achievement perfectly with the use of watercolor and ink.It’s called “Welcome to Congress” and features several women and men of color entering an otherwise white male Congress. It was painted by political cartoonist Billy Blitt who said:In all the rancor and madness of the past few weeks (hell, the past few years), it appears weve just lived through a nice moment.”You can see the cover below:An early look at next week's cover, Welcome to Congress, by Barry Blitt: https://t.co/a5jgW9jTun pic.twitter.com/rgBX23R2pO— The New Yorker (@NewYorker) November 9, 2018People couldn’t stop hailing it:The latest New Yorker cover is such a fantastic use of ink and watercolor to celebrate the new class of women of color in government pic.twitter.com/3UaH45EMWZ— Molly Crabapple (@mollycrabapple) November 9, 2018The upcoming @NewYorker cover is brilliant. pic.twitter.com/1H12HTy3ls— deray (@deray) November 9, 2018The @NewYorker welcomes the incoming Congressional class with a brilliant cover; perfectly depicting how the American people elected the youngest & most diverse set of representatives in history. pic.twitter.com/RRL29UZI4y— Millennial Politics (@MillenPolitics) November 10, 2018And saw some familiar faces crashing through the door to Congress:Very cool cover from the New Yorker, featuring @Ocasio2018, @IlhanMN & @sharicedavids! pic.twitter.com/gGrijXiV9u— jordan (@JordanUhl) November 9, 2018The new cover of the @NewYorker is everything. Hi @LucyWins2018! Hi @AyannaPressley! Hi @Ocasio2018! Hi @IlhanMN! Hi all of you amazing new Congresswomen! pic.twitter.com/mfhqoiGB9j— Shannon Watts (@shannonrwatts) November 10, 2018“The New Yorker” put into perspective just how diverse this new class of Congress is:	Liberal
While voters now have their eyes set on the 2020 Presidential election, it appears that their hindsight is 20/20 as well.A report from the Los Angeles Timeshas calculated the number of states who elected Republican governors and senators versus those that elected Democrats in the 2018 midterms (for those without a gubernatorial or senatorial election, it tallied the number of congressional votes).Its conclusion? Had the midterms been a presidential election, Democrats would have gained 278 electoral college votes, surpassing the required 270 for a presidential candidate to gain victory.The author of the report, David Lauder, explained his findings:“I allocated the states in most cases by which party won the top statewide race or, if there wasnt a race for Senate or governor, by which party got the largest number of votes for Congress.”He cautioned however:“Obviously, this doesnt mean Trump will definitely lose his reelection. The 2020 campaign wont simply replicate 2018.”Nonetheless, the possibility has Democrats even more motivated.We will take our country back from tyranny in two years.— UCLAtino (@UclaHombre) November 9, 2018This graphic may come in handy after the 2020 election #Resist— Kevin (@SolidGraniteNH) November 9, 2018And there will be over 1400 more scandals by then — gail (@gailog) November 9, 2018It turns out that the best way to beat trumpists at their own game is to simply show up and beat them.  Republicans take this opposition completely the wrong way. We need Republicans. Republicans should have a voice. Democrats welcome sane balanced opponents. Bring one next time.— Uneven Keel (@AnUnevenKeel) November 9, 2018If everyone votes this is what will happen in 2020—    (@historBilia) November 9, 2018It’s important to note that former President Barack Obama still won reelection in 2012 after losing both the Senate and House of Representatives majorities in 2010, and the upcoming Presidential election would be a national choice between two candidates instead of numerous candidates across a number of states.That said, the rates of voter turnout and enthusiasm for Democratic candidates in this year’s midterms still paint a foreboding picture for Republicans’ prospects in 2020.This especially applies when considering the ways in which Donald Trump’s rhetoric and antics changed the political landscape of what is acceptable and what’s not.	Liberal
How important is an endorsement from the President toward a campaign win?According to President Donald Trump’s results in the 2018 midterms, not very. But former President Barack Obama’s endorsement did carry value with his candidates being declared winner 52 percent of the time to Trump’s 28 percent.However for those candidates Trump actively campaigned for, versus a generic Twitter endorsement, the results were higher at 58 percent success. But still showed a rally appearance with the President still did not guarantee a win in November’s midterm elections.The Brookings Institution foundTrump endorsed 75 candidates, Obama endorsed 74, Vice President Mike Pence endorsed 61, former Vice President Joe Biden endorsed 57 and former presidential candidate Senator Bernie Sanders endorsed 24.Sander’s candidates fared the best with 66 percent winning, followed by Biden with 61 percent, Obama next with 52 percent, then Pence with 40 percent and Trump with only 28 percent.The pattern of endorsements showed Trump should have had a huge night as he only endorsed candidates in heavily Republican districts. Obama and Sanders endorsed candidates in majority Democrat districts but a competitive GOP presence as did Pence in the opposite direction. Only Biden, with a 61 percent success rate, endorsed candidates in toss up races where neither candidate or party was favored.When the endorsement accompanied heavy campaigning for the candidate, Sanders still came out on top with 69 percent of his picks winning. Biden dropped one percentage point to 60 percent, Obama upped his success rate by 2 percent to 54 percent, but Trump jumped 30 points to 58 percent success. Pence actually dropped 3 points to 37 percent success.But was Trump’s success in heavily Republican areas where he actually campaigned the result of his campaign rallies, or were his rallies only held in districts where he knew he could draw a crowd? And a Trump campaign rally was definitely not a magic bullet.Trump took losses in Kansas where he campaigned heavily. And some of Trump’s wins were not landslides in places like deep red Texas, Ohio and Florida.Despite the clear statistics, some conservative pundits like Candace Owens tried to paint a different picture.	Liberal
President Donald Trump sought help from friends in publishing during the 2016campaign to deliver hush money payments to women with whom he had relationships. And federal prosecutors have the evidence.The Wall Street Journal published an explosive report on Friday detailing how Trump used his relationship with National Enquirer CEO David Pecker to arrange payoffs to women, including Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal, who both claim they had affairs with Trump.The WSJ interviewed people with “direct knowledge of the events or who have been briefed on them, as well as court papers, corporate records and other documents” for the story, which is the most sweeping chronicle of Trump’s involvement in the payoffs.Trump reportedly asked Pecker in 2015, “What can you do to help my campaign?” to which Pecker promised to buy the women’s stories and then bury them in a process known as “catch and kill.”The Journal found that Trump in 2016 requested that Pecker make sure McDougal’s story was never made public. Pecker’s company, American Media Inc., paid McDougal, a former Playboy playmate, for her silence about her alleged fling with Trump a decade prior.Daniels, meanwhile, signed a non-disclosure agreement with Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen in October 2016 and received a $130,000 settlement for her silence.Daniels, a former porn star, has since sued Trump to have the NDA voided because Trump himself never signed it. Her attorney Michael Avenatti has teased at challenging Trump in the 2020presidential election.The WSJ’s reporting is the strongest evidence yet that Trump individuals in his orbit likely committed campaign finance violations leading up to the presidential election.Pecker was granted immunity in August and Cohenpleaded guilty to eight counts of tax evasion, bank fraud and campaign finance violations. Trump was named as an unindicted co-conspirator stemming from the ill-begotten payments in Cohen’s plea agreement.Richard Hasen, a campaign finance law expert and law professor at the University of California, Irvine told the Journal that Trump’s involvement would not necessarily mean he broke campaign finance laws. The key lies in whether Trump had criminal intent and knowingly broke the law.Friday’s WSJ story appears to bolster rumors which circulated over the summer that Pecker had a safe containing documents relating to the payments. The documents were relocated before Trump’s inauguration and their whereabouts are not publicly known.Trump has denied having any sexual relationship with either Daniels or McDougal.The WSJ report has reignited calls for Trump’s impeachment.But tell me again why Dems shouldn't be focused on impeachment— Daniel Sherman (@danshermanparty) November 9, 2018Then once we get to that, hopefully enough pressure will be put on say the Republicans in the Senate to finally act once Trump becomes more of a problem than an asset say for the majority of them up for re-election in 2020.— Tyler Gorash (@TurbidTG1) November 9, 2018Soon… pic.twitter.com/LLA6NRl3Db— Sho'Nuff Skywalker (@BreakandEnterTV) November 9, 2018Always knew it would be this that took him down first!! pic.twitter.com/sGOWJjrAEM— Skyleigh #Glovesoff #ProtectMueller (@Sky_Lee_1) November 9, 2018Dems, Jan sworn inGOP is not going to do anything. We have seen this for 8 years.— DaleWillResist (@awelab1956) November 9, 2018Is anyone surprised?	Liberal
Earlier today, President Donald Trump railed against Andrew Gillum, whose race against Ron DeSantis has triggered a recount after the margin between them became much slimmer. Gillum had conceded to DeSantis on Tuesday.In a tweet, the president claimed that the Florida recount effort “is an embarrassment to our Country and to Democracy!”Mayor Gillum conceded on Election Day and now Broward County has put him back into play. Bill Nelson conceded Election – now hes back in play!? This is an embarrassment to our Country and to Democracy!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 9, 2018Gillum soon fired back.“Whats embarrassing to democracy is not counting every vote  and you, of course,” he wrote.Whats embarrassing to democracy is not counting every vote  and you, of course. Count every vote. https://t.co/ZfrBBcymrg— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) November 9, 2018Gillum has 49.1 percent, or 4,023,124 votes, while DeSantis has 49.6 percent, or 4,066,059 votes, for a margin of just under 43,000, according to NBC News.In a statement, Gillum said that since his concession speech,“it has become clear there are many more uncounted ballots than was originally reported. Our campaign, along with our attorney Barry Richard, is monitoring the situation closely and is ready for any outcome, including a state-mandated recount.”“Mayor Gillum started his campaign for the people, and we are committed to ensuring every single vote in Florida is counted,” the statement continued.The two men have a history of sparring. Most recently, the president blastedthe Tallahassee mayor as “a thief.”In Florida there is a choice between a Harvard/Yale educated man named @RonDeSantisFL who has been a great Congressman and will be a great Governor – and a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee, said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 29, 2018Gillum countered that soon afterward, calling the president “weak.”On Twitter there is a choice between having the courage to @ the person you are trash talking, or not. @realDonaldTrump is howling because he's weak. Florida, go vote today. https://t.co/I8uOokptJA— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) October 29, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Friday jabbed at former First Lady Michelle Obama over her soon-to-be-released memoir in which Mrs. Obama writes she will “never forgive” Trump for his part in the racist “birther”conspiracy theory that targeted her husband.In her memoir,Becoming,Mrs. Obama savaged Trump for fueling false rumors that the 44th president was not born an American citizen.“The whole [birther] thing was crazy and mean-spirited, of course, its underlying bigotry and xenophobia hardly concealed. But it was also dangerous, deliberately meant to stir up the wingnuts and kooks, Mirs. Obama writes in her book. “What if someone with an unstable mind loaded a gun and drove to Washington? What if that person went looking for our girls? Donald Trump, with his loud and reckless innuendos, was putting my familys safety at risk. And for this Id never forgive him.Mrs. Obama knocks Trump’s entire presidential bid as a form of “grandstanding,” adding that Trump’s brand can be summed up as “I can hurt you and get away with it.The president went into a tirade against the Obamas Friday morning.“She got paid a lot of money to write a book and they always expect a little controversy,” Trump said of Mrs. Obama.Trump then aimed his fire at former President Barack Obama, saying:“I’ll give you a little controversy back, I’ll never forgive him for what he did to our US military. It was depleted, and I had to fix it…I’ll never forgive him for what he did to our military. I’ll never forgive him for what he did in many other ways which I’ll talk to you about in the future.”Trump did not specify what the “many other ways” are.Watch the president’s remarks below:Responding to Michelle Obama memoir, in which she writes that she'll "never forgive" Donald Trump for his birther comments, Pres. Trump says he'll never forgive Barack Obama "for what he did to our United States military by not funding it properly." pic.twitter.com/xyGKf3s6qH— tomorraw.com (@tomorrawdotcom) November 9, 2018Trump was blasted, for the comment, as some reminded him of Obama’s actual military accomplishments:Trump on Obama: "What he did to our military made this country very unsafe for you and you and you."Reminder: Obama ordered the mission that killed Osama bin Laden.— Peter Alexander (@PeterAlexander) November 9, 2018Trump slamming Obama for depleting the military? Yet many Trump supporters always say "why does the US have to get involved with other country's problems" Obama also got troops home from Afghanistan and Iraq! Oh yeah killed Osama with 0 casualties! pic.twitter.com/lAIjHTmRmY— Ryan (@Ryan51504ever) November 9, 2018Not to mention Trump’s own hypocrisy on the issue.trump is afraid to visit the troops.— Joe D (@just_old_joe) November 9, 2018Once again, using the military as his political prop. Gross!— Lola Griffith (@Black_Betty07) November 9, 2018We are spending more now on our military than ever before, a trend that has transcended presidencies.Dafuq? The DoD has consumed like half the federal budget since WW2. Its like our country has an enormous tapeworm. Nothing against individual soldiers but the US military is about 10x as big as it needs to be. And it gets us into trouble.— Dr. Lurlene, PhD (@reedupyall) November 9, 2018His bitter narcissism is showing, as is his grudge against Obama.	Liberal
During a College Night at Borderline Bar & Grill in Southern California, 28-year-old Ian David Long opened fire on the patrons of the bar, killing 13 people.While tragic attacks like this should be a rarity in Americaas they are in other countriesthat sadly isn’t the case. With this being the 307th shootingto kill four or more people this year, mass shootings have become as synonymous with the United States as apple pie and baseball.This is why it’s not statistically out of the question that Americans would find themselves having to face more than one mass shooting in their lifetimes. In fact, multiple survivors of the Route 91 Music Festival shootingin Las Vegas last year were also at Borderline Bar & Grill the night of this most recent atrocity. At least one of these people,Telemachus Orfanos, did not survive.Now, his grieving mother is demanding that something finally be done."I don't want prayers. I don't want thoughts. I want gun control."Susan Orfanos says her son, Telemachus Orfanos, survived last year's Las Vegas mass shooting but did not survive the massacre at a Thousand Oaks bar. pic.twitter.com/fM1JtTMcPn— ABC News (@ABC) November 9, 2018In the heartbreaking video, Susan Orfanos eviscerates the platitude of “thoughts and prayers,” saying:“My son was in Las Vegas with a lot of his friends and he came home. He didn’t come home last night, and I don’t want prayers. I don’t want thoughts. I want gun control, and I hope to God nobody sends me anymore prayers. I want gun control. No more guns!”Americans on Twitter rallied to support Orfanos, concurring with what she never should have had to say.One of these days, America will FINALLY have enough of these shootings. One day. Don't hold your breath waiting for that to happen though. #NoMoreMassShootings— Ernie (@ecl326) November 9, 2018My heart breaks for her! No one should have to bury their child!— Susan kane (@Susanka09769115) November 9, 2018She is right.— Salman Khan (@EngrsalmanPk) November 9, 2018@realDonaldTrump @PressSec @NRA  her son survived on mass shooting but didn't survive a second…..the odds were he would never experience something like Las Vegas again….but here we are— Angel by day  (@missangeleyes) November 9, 2018The crisis of mass shootings in the United States has long been existent, announcing its presence even more starkly in the last two weeks.	Liberal
Outgoing Florida Governor and Senate candidate Rick Scott (R) has filed lawsuits in two heavily Democratic counties accusing Democrats of trying to “steal” the election by counting all the votes that were cast on Tuesday.“In theirlawsuit against Broward County, Scott and the National Republican Senatorial Committee (NRSC) allege that officials there are hiding critical information about the number of votes cast and counted,” Fox News reported on Friday. “And in a parallel suit against Palm Beach County, Scott and the NRSC charge that the election supervisor there illegally used her own judgment to determine voter intent when reviewing damaged or incorrectly filled-out absentee ballots, while refusing to allow impartial witnesses to monitor the process.”In the Broward County suit, Scott alleges Broward County Supervisor of Elections Brenda Snipes was in violation of the Florida Constitution and the Florida Public Records Act. Snipes, the filing states, was “unwilling to disclose records revealing how many electors voted, how many ballots have been canvassed, and how many ballots remain to be canvassed,” and charges that the uncertainty “raises substantial concerns about the validity of the election process.”The suit demands an emergency hearing and that Snipes turn over ballot information.Snipes has blamed the confusion and delays on the sheer volume of votes.I think we had over 58 percent of our voters voted, and each voter received a ballot package of either five or six pages, said Snipes on Thurdsay. Its volume that causes this.The second suit, filed against Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections Susan Bucher, claims election officials refused oversight on the counting of damaged absentee ballots.Scott’s case asks for an injunction “requiring Bucher to make and compare duplicate copies of all damaged absentee ballots in the presence ofScott’s representatives,” Fox found, “and to allow the Palm Beach County Canvassing Board to determine voters’ intent when counting those ballots.”The crux of the Palm Beach fiasco has to do with voters failing to understand how to properly fill out their ballots.“Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections Susan Bucher told Fox News thatPalm Beach is still counting about 2,000 mail-in ballots where voters circled or highlighted (by drawing an arrow pointing at the candidates name) their choice, instead of filling in the appropriate bubbles.”Ballots are being reviewed to determine voter intent.As of Thursday afternoon, incumbent Senator Bill Nelson (D) trailed outgoing governor Rick Scott (R) by only 0.21 percent, or a little more than 17,000 votes. That’s a small enough margin to trigger a recount, and Scott is in full-blown panic mode.Without evidence, Scott cited “rampant fraud” and declared that he “will not stand idly by while unethical liberals try to steal an election.”Scott hinted to reporters on Thursday that he believes Democrats are trying to rig the election against him by ensuring all the votes were counted.“Late Tuesday night, our win was projected to be around 57,000 votes,” Scott said. “By Wednesday morning, that lead dropped to 38,000. By Wednesday evening, it was around 30,000. This morning, it was around 21,000. Now, it is 15,000.”Scott received some pretty harsh backlash for the suits. It sure looks like Scott doesn’t want all votes cast to be counted.Serious question re Rick Scott presser. If the point was not to act as candidate Scott explaining his lawsuit, but instead to allege on behalf of the State of Florida an election fraud requiring FDLE intervention, isn't the appropriate state officer for that the FL Sec. of State?— David Jolly (@DavidJollyFL) November 9, 2018A lawsuit to stop votes from being counted. Rick Scott doesn't want your vote to count. He belongs in prison, not the senate https://t.co/BCL8dI9iGd— Marcus H. Johnson (@marcushjohnson) November 9, 2018Rick Scott just attacked me as a lawyer from Washington DC as he announced a lawsuit literally in the name of the national Republican Party located in Washington, D.C.  Pro tip: when you are attacking the othersides lawyers, you are losing. Cc: @normcoleman @PatMcCroryNC https://t.co/NlCy3EEDoK— Marc E. Elias (@marceelias) November 9, 2018Gov. Rick Scott & the NRSC are filing a public records lawsuit against Broward election supervisor Brenda Snipes for failing to provide them with information about outstanding ballots that have yet to be tabulatedThe lawsuit comes as Scotts margins are shrinking v. Sen Nelson pic.twitter.com/ZZunsV1bPP— Marc Caputo (@MarcACaputo) November 9, 2018President Donald Trump on Thursday parroted Scott’s accusations of a “big corruption scandal” in Broward and Palm Beach Counties, insisting that the state “voted for Rick Scott.”“Law Enforcement is looking into another big corruption scandal having to do with Election Fraud in #Broward and Palm Beach,” Trump charged, without offering any proof. “Florida voted for Rick Scott!”Law Enforcement is looking into another big corruption scandal having to do with Election Fraud in #Broward and Palm Beach. Florida voted for Rick Scott!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 9, 2018Trump’s baseless tweet drew the ire of citizens concerned over the integrity of state elections, except it’s the Republicans drawing the most skepticism.For once, youre right. There WAS election fraud in Florida. Also in Georgia and Texas. Recounting the votes is the only way to prove who really won. If people really voted for Scott, DeSantis, and Cruz, you should SUPPORT the recount and have confidence it will be in their favor— J (@CalicoCruiser) November 9, 2018And keep counting the votes in AZ. GOP sued yesterday to stop counting votes before they were already counted.— Tiny Montgomery (@TinySez) November 9, 2018all of this is hipocrisy!!! If the GOP had lost Georgia Florida and Texas they would have had a fit and demanded those recounts. Lately they have been the party to just push things through.— Carlos Osorio (@saldude25) November 9, 2018I'm not sure I understand how known criminals are allowed to run for office?  For real?— Sandra Kenny-Veech (@Shes_so_Sandi) November 9, 2018NY district also reelected someone under indictment.— YossarianGolgi (@YossarianGolgi) November 9, 2018They don't like Native Americans either.— Gwendolyn J Hughes (@Gwendol69280110) November 9, 2018Any margin of less than 0.5 percent triggers an automatic recount, according to Florida election law.	Liberal
In an advance look at Michelle Obama’s new book, Becoming, The Washington Post revealed how the birtherism movement affected the Obama family. Birtherismpushed by White supremacists in response to the first non-White President of the United Statesgained traction when prominent media personalities jumped on board.Two of those media personalities to publicly embrace, endorse and promote the racism based birtherism narrative were President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump.For that, Michelle Obama stated she could never forgive Trump. She wrote:“What if someone with an unstable mind loaded a gun and drove to Washington? What if that person went looking for our girls?”“Donald Trump, with his loud and reckless innuendos, was putting my family’s safety at risk. And for this I’d never forgive him.”The recent pipe bomb headed for former President Obama as well as other critics or rivals of President Trump prove the former First Lady had reason to fear. The so-called MAGAbomber is proof of the cult of personality Trump commands and the harm of his rhetoric on an unstable mind.For several years, bombing suspect Cesar Sayok tweeted conspiracies of every sort: PizzaGate, a plethora about George Soros, claims the Clintons murdered people, birtherism, chemtrails.But his tweets got increasingly violent after Trump took office. https://t.co/lzpDOnO9Fa andrew kaczynski (@KFILE) October 31, 2018TBH this guy’s Twitter feed isn’t meaningfully different from those of millions of Trump followers.I could find a dozen that contain the same slurry of cult worship, birtherism, xenophobia, and conspiracy claptrap in the TL’s of my trolls in the last day. Rick Wilson (@TheRickWilson) October 26, 2018Trumps birtherism was his original political sin, from which all of his other wrongs have flowed. It was steeped in the racism familiar to blacks, Jews and all who are otherthe hate that has historically led to the murder of so many, including in my own family. Unforgivable. https://t.co/I4cG69B1vF Norm Eisen (@NormEisen) November 9, 2018Trump’s birtherism lies helped keep racism alive and allowed it to go mainstream when he became president. Vote Them Out (@ClayHenry17) November 9, 2018 The parties involved in the birtherism movement ignored the fact that regardless of where Barack Obama was bornwhich was Hawaii which is part of the United Stateshis mother was a United States citizen.The quote on the left is Michelle Obama, speaking of the fear that birtherism brought to her family.The quote on the right is from @benshapiro‘s 2011 article, The Magic of Donald Trump, in which he explains how useful birtherism is to conservativism.Ben should apologize. pic.twitter.com/gzsm2SvPQ4 (((Mister ‘Soul Cake’ Magic))) (@Mr_JamesLandis) November 9, 2018No one suggests that Trump is a perpetrator, but pipe bombs as a tool of political intimidation do not arrive unexpectedly. They come after the Presidents remarks on birtherism, Mexican rapists, and Charlottesville, David Remnick writes. https://t.co/51xy2OGvjh The New Yorker (@NewYorker) October 27, 2018The worst thing the media ever did was neglect to call ‘birtherism’ what it was — RACISM. If the media had done its job, birther king Trump wouldn’t be pres. For over 5 yrs white nationalist Trump stoked the flames of hate and racism, and the media let him get away w/it. #AMJoy Bill Madden (@activist360) November 3, 2018All this media buzz about Melania “breaking publicly against her own husband” about LeBron James. She’s a birther. She supported Trump’s birtherism & other racist policies. So buzz away, but mention that too. Kthxbye. Laffy (@GottaLaff) August 6, 2018Melania Trump was an appalling birtherist bully too like Trump. Michelle Obama says she’ll never forgive Trump for “putting my family’s safety at risk” over birtherism, deliberately meant to stir up the wingnuts and kooks.”pic.twitter.com/JV4TeFekRE Orrite Then (@OrRite_Then) November 9, 2018Michelle O suffered so much because of Trump and Melania with the Birtherism conspiracy they spread. Tell us Melania about how you are bullied? Mary Rose (@Beutifulgame) November 9, 2018Previously, White presidential candidates like George Romneydespite being born outside of the United Statescaused no such call of not being legitimate candidates from White nationalist organizations. Later, Ted Cruz would also run for President based on his mother’s status as a United States citizen at the time of his birth in Canada.But so-called birthers pushed to delegitimize Barack Obama as President, claiming he was born in Kenya, the country of his father’s citizenship.Trump used his Twitter following and media appearances and interviews to push the White nationalist started debate over the country of President Barack Obama’s birth. Beginning in 2012 and ending in 2014, Trump tweeted false statements about President Obama’s birth certificate 23 times.In them, Trump claims “very credible sources” told him Obama’s birth certificate is fake. Again, this completely ignores Obama being eligible to be President based on his mother’s citizenship and Obama’s own United States citizenship.Trump failed to ever produce any of his “highly credible sources.”	Liberal
Doctors fired back at the National Rifle Association after it lambasted “self-important anti-gun doctors” in a social media post after a gunman shot and killed 12 peopleat Borderline Bar and Grill in Thousand Oaks, California.The NRA’s tweet was in response to the issuance from the American College of Physicians (ACP) of new guidelines for doctors to follow to help protect patients from firearm dangers.Someone should tell self-important  anti-gun doctors to stay in their lane. Half of the articles in Annals of Internal Medicine are pushing for gun control. Most upsetting, however, the medical community seems to have consulted NO ONE but themselves. https://t.co/oCR3uiLtS7— NRA (@NRA) November 7, 2018The NRA tweeted an editorial from its own website which criticizes ACP for its policy recommendations, which “includea ban on semiautomatic firearms and high (read: standard) capacity magazines, licensing and permitting requirements, improved reporting to NICS, restrictions on concealed carry, and so on.”“None of the ACPs policy recommendations focus on law enforcement or the importance of identifying, prosecuting, and incarcerating criminals,” the NRA continues. The group laments later in its editorial: “If only the ACP had the same sort of respect for the 2ndAmendment.”The post was immediately criticized by medical professionals who have been vocal about gun violence as a public health crisis.The Annals of Internal Medicine, the magazine in which the ACP’s guidelines appeared, pledged to continue “to talk to our patients about gun violence whenever risk factors are present.”The @NRA tells doctors to "stay in their lane" re #GunViolence. We wish we could. Instead, we pledge to talk to our patients about gun violence whenever risk factors are present. Click the link at the top of the page and join us https://t.co/deFA2WfFh7 .— Annals of Int Med (@AnnalsofIM) November 8, 2018“We are not self-important: we are important to the care of others,” wrote Dr. Esther Choo, an emergency doctor and associate professor at the Oregon Health & Science University.We are not self-important: we are important to the care of othersWe are not anti-gun: we are anti-bullet holes in our patientsWe consult with everyone but extremists Most upsetting, actually, is death and disability from gun violence that is unparalleled in the world https://t.co/E8qz3lewK7— Esther Choo MD MPH (@choo_ek) November 8, 2018Dr.Sonia Kahn, a Fremont, California ICU physician countered: “Not only is this OUR lane, YOU ARE IN IT.”My lane as Pediatric ICU physician: why don't YOU try being the person who has to go into a room & tell a family the worst possible news they are ever going to hear because the damage their kid came in with was beyond our saving? Not only is this OUR lane, YOU ARE IN IT. #GetOut—  Sonia F. Khan MD, FAAP (@sapienist) November 8, 2018“I am DONE with @NRA telling me I can’t talk about this,” wrote Dr. Megan Ranney, an emergency doctor at Brown/Rhode Island Hospital and the director ofThe Emergency Digital Health Innovation(eDHI)Program at Brown University.12 more parents have lost their children.  Another community is traumatized. I have had #enough I am DONE with @NRA telling me I can't talk about this. DONE accepting federal limits on #research And I know you are, too.This is what you can do:https://t.co/3d0wO4ytgo— Megan Ranney MD MPH (@meganranney) November 8, 2018“These injuries are REAL LIFE. This us OUR LANE,” she continued.1. Share your stories. After #Parkland, people across the country told about the horrors they had seen as #Docs4GunSense. Stories matter. This is not a glamorous movie. These injuries are REAL LIFE. This us OUR LANE.https://t.co/NHBoRnIPyc— Megan Ranney MD MPH (@meganranney) November 8, 2018The NRA’s defense comes on the heels of new data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)showing that gun deaths rose in 2015-16 after having started to fall in earlier years.During 20152016, homicide was the 16th leading cause of death among persons of all ages in the United States and the third leading cause among youths aged 1019 years; a firearm injury was the underlying cause of death in 74 percent of all homicides and in 87 percent of youth homicides,” the CDC said.Previously observed decreases in firearm homicide rates have not continued, with more recent rates showing an increase both nationally and in large (urban areas), the CDC added. “It is too soon to know whether recent increases in firearm homicide rates represent a short-term fluctuation or the beginning of a longer-term trend.”	Liberal
The midterms aren’t over yet. The closely fought race for Florida governor looks headed for a recount as the difference in votes between the two candidates has fallen to less than half a percent.As of Thursday afternoon, former Republican Congressman Ron DeSantis is up just 0.4 percentage points – that’s 36,234 votes out of more than 8 million votes cast – over Democratic Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum. Florida Governors race for the FIRST TIME is heading to a recountDeSantis 49.62%Gillum: 49.15%Margin: 0.47%Thats below the 0.5% trigger for a recount— Marc Caputo (@MarcACaputo) November 8, 2018On Wednesday evening, with tens of thousands of ballots still uncounted, Gillum said he was “looking forward to seeing every votecounted.DeSantis had been declared the winner of the race Tuesday night. Gillum, who is looking to be the first black governor of the Sunshine State, conceded the election to DeSantis after the race was called.Under Florida law, however, any margin of less than 0.5 percent triggers an automatic recount. The Gillum campaign on Thursday reportedly told April Ryan ofAmerican Urban Radio Networks that DeSantis’s lead had dropped to less than 15,000 votes.Gillum urged Florida voters Thursday afternoon to make sure their provisional ballots were properly cast and submitted.“Every voice must be heard in this race!” Gillum wrote on Twitter. “If you voted a provisional ballot, make sure your vote gets counted by contacting your County Supervisor of Elections by 5 PM TODAY.”Every voice must be heard in this race! If you voted a provisional ballot, make sure your vote gets counted by contacting your County Supervisor of Elections by 5 PM TODAY. https://t.co/FCMBydAKll pic.twitter.com/3ASg5eXFH6— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) November 8, 2018People did just that.https://twitter.com/AdelaZepeda/status/1060601885403607040Okay thanks! My vote was counted.— Ade  (@AdelaZepeda) November 8, 2018I called Miami-Dade Elections Headquarters today, they said their website crashed because of everyone checking their ballot. Keep checking people. Also, they are still counting absentee ballots and overseas ballots. Im sure Broward is going through the same thing. #Florida— LAC (@HumanitarianGal) November 8, 2018The following tweets can help if you live in Florida and need to secure your vote.If you forgot to sign your absentee ballot, you have until 5pm today to do so. #Florida #MiamiDade #Broward #PalmBeach https://t.co/oUzY7ZAHtq— LAC (@HumanitarianGal) November 8, 2018For those who mailed in Florida absentee ballots, track your vote with this Absentee Ballot Tracking Tool: https://t.co/YbOGBPnbmH— Mia Therese Jamili (@MiaJamili) November 8, 2018Provisional ballot cure instructions:https://t.co/oFhKZ36OlY— Lisa Is Preparing For 2020  (@crafty_lisafl) November 8, 2018There is still hope down there in Florida. pic.twitter.com/rblCJ7tLMG— Chris-FL (@chris_921) November 8, 2018Broward & Palm counties STILL havent counted mail in, provisional or overseas votes yet!!!https://t.co/PtveUZZ4Tw— Kate    (@britchic2016) November 8, 2018Please say you are still in it until every vote is counted!— Mandy MacLeod (@mandy_macleod) November 8, 2018HE GOT HIS MANDATORY RECOUNT! 0.47% DIFFERENCE!! #BringItHome pic.twitter.com/33DZRW7b8z— Jesi Williams (@Jesiii_Lynne) November 8, 2018Florida’s Senate race was also close enough to cross into recount territory.	Liberal
For many people in the United Statesand those observing around the worldit seems mass shootings are increasing. But are they really?Fox News Research division provided the answer on their Twitter feed Thursdaythe day after a gunman murdered 12 people in a Thousand Oaks, California bar.Fox News only looked at mass shootings where 10 or more fatalities occurred for their statistics (the FBI defines a mass shooting as an event where there are 3 or more victims.)They began in 1998, the year before the shooting at Columbine High School in Colorado and ended in June 2012. In that 14 year span, five mass shootings occurred that claimed 10 or more lives.Next, they looked at the period from the shooting at Aurora, Colorado in a movie theater in July 2012 until September 2017. In those five years, four mass shootings with 10 or more fatalities occurred.In the last 403 days, a little over one year, six mass shootings occurred.Fox listed:U.S. Mass Shootings – 10+ fatalitiesApr 1998 (Columbine) to Jun 2012:July 2012 (Aurora) to Sep 2017: : -Las Vegas (58) -Sutherland Springs (26) -Parkland (17) -Santa Fe HS (10) -Pittsburgh Synagogue (11) -CA bar (12) https://t.co/LQxJZA9Onm Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) November 8, 2018The tweet sparked debate.Why the arbitrary cutoff at 10+? Sousi (@sousibrown) November 8, 2018Because the numbers will go way up if they use the official number designating a mass shooting  3 ppl or more. Ladyperson (@refinedmess) November 8, 2018On the other hand, they’re doing a good job of pointing out that the rate of large mass shootings has gone up substantially during the Trump administration. Still, I would have liked a comparison to all mass shootings. Sousi (@sousibrown) November 8, 2018Theyre also doing a good job at showing that the Assault Weapons Ban of 19942004 worked. Ladyperson (@refinedmess) November 8, 2018It’s unclear to me that the above data directly correlates to this. That said, it’s an excellent idea. Sousi (@sousibrown) November 8, 2018I think that is precisely the correlation intended. Demoyne Jones (@ItllBeAiight) November 8, 2018And people, of course,found the numbers disturbing.Well thats absolutely depressing Dusty (@DustinGiebel) November 8, 2018Ugh, this is embarrassing. Craig Anderson (@canderson1989) November 8, 2018I am not sure building a wall will solve your problems. Colin Actually (@actually_colin) November 8, 2018Sad….this place is SICK …. I wouldnt be surprised if other countries put an American Ban Mind Of A Man (@Mind0fAMaN) November 8, 2018People also brought up the idea of the “good guy with a gun.”	Liberal
Melissa Chan is a national and foreign affairs reporter with Al Jazeera. She worked as a broadcast correspondent for Al Jazeera America.Chan also reported from Cuba, Canada, South Korea, North Korea, Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Mongolia, Moscow, Jerusalem, Ramallah and Gaza. With Al Jazeera English, Chan served as China correspondent for five years before her expulsion from the authoritarian country in 2012 amidst backlash over the channel’s reports.That expulsion from China and revocation of her press credentials led Chan to share her experience on Twitter in the wake of the Trump White House expelling CNN correspondent Jim Acosta. Chan shared that China did the same thing with her in 2012.As someone who has had my press credentials denied by authoritarian China, I never thought I’d see this crap happen in the US. And this “most reporters are okay but @Acosta is aggressive” thing is the EXACT line Chinese propaganda printed about me. It’s a tactic, people. Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) November 8, 2018Right now, they’re singling out @Acosta. But tomorrow it’ll be Journalist X. And later Journalist Y and Z. It can happen very quickly. And of course, there’s always something wrong with the reporter. They’ll go back ten years to find something you misreported if they have to. Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) November 8, 2018They’ll start casting suspicion about not just your work, but your very character. All they need is a whiff of anything unsavory. And it’ll be a talking point different people in the government will say, in public and private. Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) November 8, 2018In a country with a constitutional guarantee of freedom of the press, government attempts to silence certain reporters the President does not likeTrump’s own words from his press conference that resulted in Acosta’s expulsionand references to the press as the “enemy of the people” by the leader of that country seem incongruous.Chan continued with her story of her time living in an authoritarian country where freedom of the press is not the First Amendment of the Constitution.And you know what? This too will just be today’s news, a blip. Because we’re in the era of the exhausted majority. This too, I saw in China. Ordinary, decent people with busy lives who have no energy to be exhausted or outraged by politics. Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) November 8, 2018And that, folks, is how a billion+ people in China live in an authoritarian state. Guess what? You don’t feel daily oppression in an authoritarian country. You have Starbucks and the usual normal people stuff. But  Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) November 8, 2018While you don’t feel daily oppression in an authoritarian country, part of my job was to see what happened when the state DID cross paths with ordinary people. And when it does, law and justice are not there for you, and trust me, it’s BAD. Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) November 8, 2018Chan concluded with advice for other White House press corps members.BY THE WAY WHITE HOUSE REPORTERS: Something foreign correspondents in places like Beijing and Moscow have learned: Hang together, or else you’ll hang separately. My peers supported me when I got expelled from China. That stuff matters. Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) November 8, 2018Her words and first hand experience with an authoritarian government’s handling of the press resonated with people.	Liberal
President Donald Trump broke the law by appointing Matt Whitaker as acting attorney general on Tuesday, George Conway and Neal Katyal are claiming in a New York Times editorial.Conway, a lawyer and husband of White House advisor Kellyanne Conway, and Katyal, Acting Solicitor General under President Barack Obama, argue that the president is “evading the requirement to seek the Senates advice and consent for the nations chief law enforcement officer and the person who will oversee the Mueller investigation.”Rosenstein should now be acting AG— Rain (@rainerickson) November 8, 2018Whitaker served as chief of staff for now-former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whom Trump fired on Wednesday.The authors say that because the attorney general is a “principal officer,” or a government official who reports directly to the president, must be confirmed by the U.S. Senate.George Conway is the best kind of Conway.— Emily Brandwin (@CIAspygirl) November 8, 2018“President Trumps installation of Matthew Whitaker as acting attorney general of the United States after forcing the resignation of Jeff Sessions is unconstitutional,” the authors write. “Its illegal. And it means that anything Mr. Whitaker does, or tries to do, in that position is invalid.”Trump’s appointment of Whitaker “defies one of the explicit checks and balances set out in the Constitution,” Conway and Katyal say, “a provision designed to protect us all against the centralization of government power.”His tweets and articles have been increasingly pointed over the past 2 years. He appears to be as horrified as any of us who value democracy & the rule of law, irrespective of the role his wife is playing in dismantling their foundations.— Hilory (@hilory) November 8, 2018The principal officer idea was put to the test last year when the Supreme Court ruled that the nomination of the president of the National Labor Relations Board was invalid because the Senate was not given the opportunity to advise and consent.Justice Clarence Thomas in his majority opinion wrote that the framers of the Constitutionrecognized the serious risk for abuse and corruption posed by permitting one person to fill every office in the government,” and that theConstitutions Appointments Clause defined the NLRB president as a principal officer.I concur with the analysis.  I would like a reporter to ask Kellyanne whether she concurs as well.— Marshall (@Marshal40479326) November 8, 2018The founders “had lived under a form of government that permitted arbitrary governmental acts to go unchecked,” Thomas wrote. They knew that liberty could be preserved only by ensuring that the powers of government would never be consolidated in one body.To wit, the authors note, Trump has named Thomas as his “favorite” Supreme Court justice, so he may want to heed his hero’s advice.Thanksgiving at the Conways will be interesting…..— Dan Winer (@danmwiner) November 8, 2018“It is one thing to appoint an acting underling, like an acting solicitor general, a post one of us held,” the op-ed states. “But those officials are always supervised by higher-ups; in the case of the solicitor general, by the attorney general and deputy attorney general, both confirmed by the Senate.”Nicely said— Aysha (@aysham) November 8, 2018As AAG, the breadth of Whitaker’s powers is immense.	Liberal
Dana Loesch, the national spokesperson for the National Rifle Association, blamed the Wednesday night mass shooting in California on the state’s strict gun control laws.“What happened was horrific,” Loesch tweeted Thursday morning. “Evil is real. So are CA gun laws.” Loesch then listed all of the supposed “evil” elements of California’s state firearm regulations, none of which are extreme or excessively prohibitive.“Universal BG checks – May issue – 10 round mag limit – Purchase limitations – 10 day waiting period – No reciprocity with other states – Assault weapons ban & registration – Ammo thru FFL – Registration if moved,” she wroteWhat happened was horrific. Evil is real. So are CA gun laws:– Universal BG checks– May issue– 10 round mag limit – Purchase limitations– 10 day waiting period– No reciprocity with other states– Assault weapons ban & registration– Ammo thru FFL– Registration if moved https://t.co/lGG6HxxUrc— Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) November 8, 2018Loesch’s tweet was a reply to New York Times reporter Nicholas Kristof, who noted: “these kinds of incidents don’t happen in normal countries where there is some reasonable regulation of firearms, starting with universal background checks.”13 dead in a bar shooting in Thousand Oaks, Calif. Dozens more injured. Folks, these kinds of incidents don't happen in normal countries where there is some reasonable regulation of firearms, starting with universal background checks https://t.co/56JBaax7Os— Nicholas Kristof (@NickKristof) November 8, 2018Followers on Twitter blasted Loesch for her callous spin just hours after a gunman opened fire in a bar in Thousand Oaks, California, killing 13 people including armed sheriff’s deputy Ron Helus.When challenged over how to keep guns out of the hands of those who harbor ill-will, Loesch didn’t have a solution.We dont know anything about the perpetrator yet, including mental state or motive. We do have a serious problem with adjudicating mental fitness (follow-through) and a problem discussing it nationally without stereotyping those dealing with it.— Dana Loesch (@DLoesch) November 8, 2018So you are saying that gun laws dont help? What is your solution? Or do you think we just need to accept these massacres as the dark side of the right to bear arms?— John Kessler (@JohnKess69) November 8, 2018Im sure that happens. But these weapons have a killing efficiency not matched by more blunt weapons. One can literally massacre dozens in seconds. What is the solution here?— John Kessler (@JohnKess69) November 8, 2018Her callousness was not welcome.Jesus, youre a monster.— Owen Bly (@Pelgridge) November 8, 2018It must be hard to keep defending the indefensible. God is watching. #CaliforniaShooting #GunControlNow— Susan Danzen (@LovemanythingsL) November 8, 2018You are right dana, we should just hope and pray we are not gunned down in a bar, concert, elementary school, middle school, high school, college, church, mall, your workplace and of course if you are you, the nra and the gop has a full bucket of thoughts and prayers to send out.— #NeverTrump (@trumpster_fire1) November 8, 2018Seems your point is there is nothing else to be done, we just live with these horrific events.  Otherwise enlighten me with a solution other than "if some of these people had been carrying…"— AccaDaccca (@AccaDaccca) November 8, 2018Tell you what folks, the REAL tragedy here is background checks and low magazine limits. Seriously?— gweezus (@gweezus1) November 8, 2018As the NRA’s public liaison, Loesch is one of the gun lobby’s most powerful voices.It is about defending the profits of the gun industry. Individual gun owners are just chumps in this con job. Any minor piece of regulation of this rather dangerous industry is categorically opposed by the NRA. Its about money not rights.— Strike (@AlleyesonGaza) November 8, 2018https://twitter.com/SandraResists/status/1060543904318025730How are CA gun laws evil, isn't this what limited the casualties? Look at the deaths at the Pulse night club, or the Vegas shooting. Could have easily quadrupled here had he had more than a handgun.— Ramiro olmos (@olmosramiro) November 8, 2018Obviously thats not strict enough! @DLoesch  we need more! It doesnt matter if the killer was crazy or not! More people are killed accidentally or out of anger, rage & hatred than mental illness.The issue is to many guns to easy to access! #GunControlNow— Kelly  Hart (@kellyhart1961) November 8, 2018Loesch, having offered no evidence to support her claims that gun control causes mass shootings, was confronted with the inconvenient truth that states with stricter firearm rules have fewer gun-related deaths.You failed to address the FACT that states with stricter gun laws actually do have fewer firearm homicides according to the CDC.— John (@John88912175) November 8, 2018Illinois has less firearm deaths than TX, AZ, SC, GA, TN, OK, AL, MS and at least a doze other states. https://t.co/M0IQrvigVW— John (@John88912175) November 8, 2018Which of these do you find offensive to law abiding Americans? Maybe you want us to allow people without tests or drivers licenses to drive on city streets as well? How about driving your childrens school bus? Why are regulations bad?— Linda K (@ljkenn177) November 8, 2018And that the one “good guy with a gun” was among those killed.The good guy with a gun, and training, and 30+ years of experience, was cut down in a hail of bullets.— Mike Day (@rashaverak_day) November 8, 2018https://t.co/46GDpUjn5C— Pauli Dantonio (@DantonioPauli) November 8, 2018Tell that to the sheriff who lost his life!— Jj (@JackiejHamel) November 8, 2018Well, the good guy with a gun was shot – the first one shot. So that narrative didn't work here. And, Trump made it easier for people with mental illness to get a gun. But – as we hear from the NRA and Republicans, "thoughts and prayers".— spaceforceSUX (@SpaceforceSux) November 8, 2018Thankfully, were it not for that 10 round mag limit, people wouldnt have had the chance to escape while he was reloading. That law saved lives last night, thank you for highlighting it!— SFMNLVR (@slanderson2474) November 8, 2018Thank God he didn't have a larger mag. Can you imagine how many people could have died!— Steven Ellis  (@BirdGang_N_TN) November 8, 2018Would Loesch prefer guns in bars?So you think it would have been beneficial if all the drinking customers had guns? Just want to make sure I understand.— can't look away (@carolmaack) November 8, 2018Perhaps Loesch should listen to the eyewitness accounts of the latest mass shooting to cripple the country.The scene at Borderline Bar & Grill Wednesday night was described as “horrific” by first responders.A 28-year-old gunman entered the bar, a local hotspot enjoying“College Country Night,” and opened fire with a handgun. He was found dead inside the bar.	Liberal
In the weeks leading up to the midterm elections, President Donald Trump and the hosts of “Fox & Friends,” his favorite program, stressed that Democrats were “weak” on immigration laws and border security. Of particular focus was the migrant caravan, a group of thousands of Central Americans traveling to the U.S.-Mexico border, having fled violence in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras. But the day after the midterm elections, which saw Democrats regain control of the House, Fox News barely mentioned the caravan at all.In fact, it was only mentioned once, in passing, when co-host Ed Henry said:Many in the media laughed as well when the president framed [the midterms] as about [Supreme Court Justice Brett] Kavanaugh, the caravan.”Now both the president and the Fox News network are being called out.The president has not tweeted about the caravan invasion since before the election.— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) November 8, 2018Pretty magical how the "deadly caravan horde of migrant invaders coming to murder white Americans" suddenly dissipated into thin air the moment the midterms ended.— Jules Suzdaltsev (@jules_su) November 7, 2018Well, coverage of the migrant caravan stopped on November 7.Just like coverage of Weiner's laptop stopped November 9, 2016.Just like coverage of Ebola stopped November 5, 2014.The media's top story is whatever Republicans say it is. Every. Single. Time.— Matthew Chapman (@fawfulfan) November 8, 2018The president and the Fox News network have often claimed that the migrants are a danger to national security. However, these claims have been criticized in the wake of this morning’s mass shooting at a Thousand Oaks nightclub, which killed 12.Americans killed by Migrant Caravan in 2018: 0White House sends 5,000 Troops to ban themAmericans killed by Americans w/guns in 2018: 12,483White House tweets thoughts & prayersIf Migrants had killed 12,843 Americans we would've invaded a country by now#ThousandOaks— Qasim Rashid, Esq. (@MuslimIQ) November 8, 2018Another day and another mass shooting, Im starting to suspect that this might be actual problem as opposed to the migrant caravan which is a made up problem. https://t.co/1FrGUaNvZV— Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) November 8, 2018Fox News dedicated significant coverage to the caravan in the weeks leading up to the election, even sending a reporter to the border to provide updates about its progress.One migrant caravan member admits he's been deported and convicted of attempted murder in the U.S. – he's planning to reenter and request a pardon for his felony | @GriffJenkins pic.twitter.com/n8jFhKV0Sf— FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) October 28, 2018“Fox and Friends” also invited guests onto the program who would characterize the caravan, still weeks away from arriving at the border, as “an invasion”…This is invasion -Amapola Hansberger, who immigrated from Nicaragua, says the U.S. has to stop the caravan of migrants pic.twitter.com/1Kj4vlETXX— FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) October 21, 2018…and “an immediate threat.”Legal Immigrants for America founder Amapola Hansberger says the caravan of over 7,000 migrants heading to the border is an 'immediate threat' to U.S. national security on @FoxandFriends pic.twitter.com/BHimR2ab6e— Brian Kilmeade (@kilmeade) October 22, 2018“Fox and Friends” even claimed that the caravan was swelling in size to more than 7,000 people. (Reports indicated that the number is actually between 4,000 and 5,000.)Migrant caravan is increasing in size as it heads for U.S.-Mexico border pic.twitter.com/Yd0pRvtIbs— FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) October 22, 2018The president also urged his supporters to blame Democrats for the caravan.Every time you see a Caravan, or people illegally coming, or attempting to come, into our Country illegally, think of and blame the Democrats for not giving us the votes to change our pathetic Immigration Laws! Remember the Midterms! So unfair to those who come in legally.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 22, 2018The president has not tweeted about illegal immigration since a few days before the midterms.Illegal immigration affects the lives of all Americans. Illegal Immigration hurts American workers, burdens American taxpayers, undermines public safety, and places enormous strain on local schools, hospitals and communities…https://t.co/eN1IqPNBJY— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 1, 2018A few days before the election, a group of 12migrants traveling by foot from Honduras to the U.S. to seek asylum filed aclass-action lawsuitThursday against President Trump, the Department of Homeland Security and other entities to ensure their due process under the Fifth Amendment, whichstates that, no person shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.The lawsuit, which was filed last Thursday in the U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C., notes thatGuatemala, Honduras and El Salvador are undergoing a well-documented human rights crisis. The suit further claims that the Trump administration is infringing on the plaintiffsright to the Administrative Procedures Act and the Declaratory Judgement Act.The suit reads, in part:Trumps professed and enacted policy towards thousands of caravanners seeking asylum in the United States is shockingly unconstitutional. President Trump continues to abuse the law, including constitutional rights, to deter Central Americans from exercising their lawful right to seek asylum in the United States, and the fact that innocent children are involved matters none to President TrumpTrump has repeatedly professed that the caravan people will not get into this county, and just as significant, Trump has taken meaningful steps to ensure the world that this is his policy position/initiative, meaningful steps such as deploying thousands of active military troops to the border, waiting on caravan persons to arrive. The legal problem with Trumps plan to stop caravan persons from entering this country is that Plaintiffs are seeking asylum, and Trump simply cannot stop them from legally doing so by using military, or anyone.This Court should also note that President Trump has begun hysterically asserting without any evidence that many criminals and many gang members are in this onslaught of migration. In an effort to create fear and hysteria, Trump has gone so far as to call this an invasion of our Country. Despite these statements and actions, Trump has been unable to produce any evidence of criminals and gang members within the caravan, which has largely proceeded peacefully on its journey. Plaintiffs now request that this Court declare Trumps policy positions/initiatives outlined in this Complaint unconstitutional, to end this case and controversy.The migrants also say that Trump has violated the Flores Agreement by detaining children as a result of his zero tolerance family separations policy.	Liberal
Wednesday during a verbal sparring match between President Donald Trump and CNN White House correspondent Jim Acostaduring a press conference described as “off the rails”a White House intern attempted several times to grab the microphone from Acosta’s hand while he spoke with the President.Video of the interaction with the President and the actions of the White House intern was widely shared immediately after the press conference.Then that night, Acosta reported on Twitter that his press credentials were revoked at 7:46pm EST.Ive just been denied entrance to the WH. Secret Service just informed me I cannot enter the WH grounds for my 8pm hit Jim Acosta (@Acosta) November 8, 2018Sarah Huckabee Sanders made a statement to the press regarding the decision to revoke Acosta’s credentials, stating the CNN employee “put his hands” on the intern who was “only doing her job.”Sanders also posted her statement on Twitter Wednesday night at 7:48pm, just two minutes after Acosta posted his tweet.President Trump believes in a free press and expects and welcomes tough questions of him and his Administration. We will, however, never tolerate a reporter placing his hands on a young woman just trying to do her job as a White House intern… Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 8, 2018This conduct is absolutely unacceptable. It is also completely disrespectful to the reporters colleagues not to allow them an opportunity to ask a question. President Trump has given the press more access than any President in history. Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 8, 2018Contrary to CNNs assertions there is no greater demonstration of the Presidents support for a free press than the event he held today. Only they would attack the President for not supporting a free press in the midst of him taking 68 questions from 35 different reporters… Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 8, 2018…over the course of 1.5 hours including several from the reporter in question. The fact that CNN is proud of the way their employee behaved is not only disgusting, its an example of their outrageous disregard for everyone, including young women, who work in this Administration Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 8, 2018As a result of todays incident, the White House is suspending the hard pass of the reporter involved until further notice. Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 8, 2018Other members of the media and the White House Correspondents Association (WHCA) all came out in support of Acosta. WHCA posted an official response at 9:26pm EST.“Journalists may use a range of approaches to carry out their jobs and the WHCA does not police the tone or frequency of the questions its members ask of powerful senior government officials, including the president. Such interactions, however uncomfortable they may appear to be, help define the strength of our national institutions.”WHCA statement on White House decision on credentials. pic.twitter.com/bukK7CGu2G WHCA (@whca) November 8, 2018Other members of the press, including some that attended the same press conference and sat next to Acosta, added their support.If this is a decision by the White House because it doesn’t like the coverage, it’s the first time I can remember this happening to any reporter since I started covering the White House more than 22 years ago. Very bad sign. https://t.co/VNPDua0dZn Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) November 8, 2018The WH is now denying @Acosta access to the WH grounds do his job. This is incredibly concerning. https://t.co/lnZICQIGim Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) November 8, 2018They need a fresh controversy for the base too. https://t.co/RIwa7H1Sqh James Oliphant (@jamesoliphant) November 8, 2018First part is questionable, second part didnt happen. https://t.co/t4DSrxuX6W Katie Rogers (@katierogers) November 8, 2018Well this is not complicated. @PressSec has patently misrepresented what happened here. White House aide aggressively tries to take the mic from @Acosta and he never lays a hand on her. The truth still matters. https://t.co/MsWwlTGTd2 Michael Barbaro (@mikiebarb) November 8, 2018Even conservative media pundit Ben Shapiro called Sanders’ claims a misrepresentation of facts.This is not what happened. You could have banned him simply for refusing to abide by any of the normal rules of the press room. No need to state something happened that didnt. https://t.co/p9hgtVE8eZ Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) November 8, 2018So to silence critics, Sanders shared video as proof of the incident.At 10:33pm EST, Sanders sharedfootage missing the audio, zoomed in and repeated. Critics on Twitter cited thealteration of the speed of the footage as well.We stand by our decision to revoke this individuals hard pass. We will not tolerate the inappropriate behavior clearly documented in this video. pic.twitter.com/T8X1Ng912y Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 8, 2018People are calling out the source of the video and saying it was doctored.Question for @PressSec: Where’d you obtain the distorted @Acosta video you posted? InfoWars personality @PrisonPlanet posted the same video two hours before you did. Surely you don’t trust InfoWars…? Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) November 8, 2018This video is doctored. It’s slowed down and then sped up at the moment Acosta’s hand comes down to make it look like he’s doing a karate chop or something. This is shameful propaganda. It’s Orwellian. https://t.co/in8m3iHn18 Dana Schwartz (@DanaSchwartzzz) November 8, 2018The government is literally falsifying evidence to wrongfully accuse a private citizen of a crime in order to revoke his rights. Dana Schwartz (@DanaSchwartzzz) November 8, 2018Trumps press secretary, who frequently calls accurate but critical reporting fake, is sharing doctored video produced by InfoWars, a lunatic conspiracy theory outlet who has falsely claimed that the Sandy Hook massacre was faked & that John Kerry shot a hurricane with a laser Brian Klaas (@brianklaas) November 8, 2018This subtle edit of the Acosta video – his arm sped up ever so slightly, to amp up the conflict – now has thousands of retweets and hundreds of thousands of views. Video, once the end-all central validator, is becoming as vulnerable to politicized distortion as everything else https://t.co/rsYkn6u8pz Drew Harwell (@drewharwell) November 8, 2018The video was created by alt-right personality Paul Joseph Watson of Prison Planet, an affiliate of Infowars, known for their conspiracy theories and disproven evidence.	Liberal
The Yuma, Navajo, Apache and Maricopa County Republican parties filed a lawsuit last night to challenge Arizona’s mail-in ballot-counting procedures. The groups “are challenging the way counties verify signatures on mail-in ballots that are dropped off at the polls on Election Day,” according to theArizona Republic.Election officials have begun to tally more than 600,000outstanding votes in the race between Republican Representative Martha McSally and Democratic RepresentativeKyrstin Sinema, who are both vying to replace retiring Senator Jeff Flake.75 percent of Arizona voters cast ballots by mail. However, those ballots need to go through the signature confirmation process, a laborious task which could take several days. Once signatures are confirmed, the ballots can be opened and tabulated. County recorders who have issues verifying signatures are then allowed to ask voters to verify their identity.The four countyRepublican parties allege that county recordersdo not follow a uniform standard that would allow voters to adjust issues with their mail-in ballots. Their lawsuit also alleges that two counties allow those fixes after Election Day. The GOP had threatened to sue before the election. Democrats, however, say these claims amount to little more than voter suppression tactics because recorders have followed the same procedures for years without issues.A foundational principle of American democracy and our justice system is that all votes are treated equally, Arizona Republican Party Chairman Jonathan Lines said in a statement to theArizona Republic.“This equal protection under the law is enshrined in our Constitution.It is not fair nor just that voters in one county are treated differently under the law from other voters in Arizona.This suit seeks immediate redress of any inequality between ballots cast across Arizona.We stand behind our local county parties demand for equal treatment,” he added.Arizona Democratic Party chair Felecia Rotellini countered with a statement of her own.The Republican party is doing everything it can to silence thousands of Arizonans who already cast their ballots,” she said.“That’s absolutely wrong, and the Arizona Democratic Party is fully prepared to fight to ensure that every last Arizonan has their vote counted.”Andy Gordon, an election-law attorney who represents Democrats, also criticized the lawsuit.“It’s classic Republican 11th-hourstuff,” he said. “Thereare counties all over the state who have been doing this forever  and so now that weve got a different regime down here in Maricopa County, and weve got a really, really, really tight Senate race, suddenly the Republicans say, ‘You shouldnt be doing this, we need to call it off.'”“You cant sit on your hands until we see ‘OK, now its close now we want to do something about it,'” he added.	Liberal
Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) is one of President Donald Trump’s most tenacious allies. He starkly defended the president’s Supreme Court nominee (now Justice) Brett Kavanaugh during Kavanaugh’s nomination hearings, calling them a “sham” in a nearly five minute diatribe. Most recently, he supported the President’s move of eliminating birth right citizenship, calling it an “absurd policy,” and vowing to introduce legislation against it.But it wasn’t always this way, and now that’s coming back to haunt Graham.This week, as Attorney General Jeff Sessionsresigned at President Trump’s request, video of Graham discussing the then-hypothetical situation of Sessions being fired resurfaced."If Sessions is fired, there will be holy hell to pay. Any effort to go after Mueller will be the beginning of the end of the Trump presidency.Sen Lindsey Graham in July 2017pic.twitter.com/AvYvr3IyJe— Qasim Rashid, Esq. (@MuslimIQ) November 7, 2018In the video, Graham says:“If Jeff Sessions is fired, there will be holy hell to pay. Any effort to go after Mueller would be the beginning of the end of the Trump presidency.”Twitter’s response? Holy hell.Graham now: pic.twitter.com/CrVpOOmwkO— Mama Bean (@beanbrightly) November 7, 2018@LindseyGrahamSC sup bro?— Sarah Evans (@versewarper) November 7, 2018Lindsey you wont do a thing. Senator McCain weeps.— M from the Northeast (@mjpcdhoops) November 7, 2018Graham, that epitome of courage, will argue that Sessions wasn't fired, but resigned (despite the fact the first line of his resignation letter said, "At your request, I am submitting my resignation.").— Michael Salerno (@MikeNJD) November 7, 2018But many think they know the motivation behind Graham’s sudden kowtowing to the president, and suddenly this all makes sense.	Liberal
President Donald Trump made it very clear he hates bad press. Even when facts back the reports about him, he refers to all negative press as “fake news.”Because a free and honest press should report the truth, even if the President in office lies, Trump refers to most of the press as “the enemy of the people.” During a Wednesday press conference, the President took his attacks a step further.CNN White House correspondent Jim Acosta tried to ask Trump a question he did not want to answer, so the President told him to give up the microphone and sit down. Acosta finally relinquished the mic to a White House aidethat tried to grab it from him earlierafter Trump moved to walk out of the press conference.Trump then berated Acosta.The President stated:“Ill tell you what, CNN should be ashamed of itself having you working for them. You are a rude, terrible person. You shouldnt be working for CNN.”Trump then claimed Acosta treated Sarah Huckabee Sanders poorly when he questioned her about the President’s use of the phrase “enemy of the people” to describe any press that fails to flatter him or when he disputed a Trump lie that Sanders repeated during her White House briefings.When the next reporter attempted to defend Acosta, Trump toldNBCs Peter Alexander he was not fond of him either.Many thanks to my friend @PeterAlexander https://t.co/jCl1g8CHQL Jim Acosta (@Acosta) November 7, 2018Acosta stood to remind Trump of pipe bombs sent to CNN and his use of the phrase “enemy of the people” to describe press outlets that criticize him or tell truths he dislikes. Trump reiterated his claim CNN was fake news and deserved whatever happened to them.I just want to state this as clearly as possible:Jim Acosta was asking about the PIPE BOMBS sent to the CNN officeTrump replied, “When you report fake news, you are the enemy of the people.”Trump is saying he thinks CNN DESERVED TO BE BOMBED.pic.twitter.com/JnlwgKmcFr Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) November 7, 2018Watch the exchange here.‘You are a rude, terrible person’: @realDonaldTrump ripped into CNN’s Jim @Acosta during a press conference as a White House aide grabbed and attempted to remove a microphone from the White House correspondent’s hand. pic.twitter.com/gDrlz9zMf0 SBS News (@SBSNews) November 7, 2018BREAKING: White House aide grabs and tries to physically remove a microphone from CNN Correspondent Jim Acosta during a contentious exchange with President Trump at a news conference. pic.twitter.com/Ml1OvlXpa9 MSNBC (@MSNBC) November 7, 2018Trump went on to claim CNN’s polls were a form of voter suppression.CNN responded to the President’s attacks with an official statement of support for Acosta and the First Amendment. The network wrote:“This President’s ongoing attacks on the press have gone too far. They are not only dangerous, they are disturbingly un-American.”CNN then raised the issue of the President’s oath of office to defend the Constitution, including the First Amendment.“While President Trump has made it clear he does not respect a free press, he has a sworn obligation to protect it.”CNN concluded:“A free press is vital to democracy, and we stand behind Jim Acosta and his fellow journalists everywhere.”They posted their response on Twitter as well.CNNs response to @realDonaldTrumps press conference today: pic.twitter.com/tJ3nZDnYwO CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 7, 2018Others also came out in support of Acosta and a free press.	Liberal
Attorney General Jeff Sessions tendered his resignation Wednesday at the request of President Donald Trump, flaming Democrats’ concerns over the future of the investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia.Trump announced Sessions’ departure along with his immediate replacement on Twitter Wednesday afternoon.“We are pleased to announce that Matthew G. Whitaker,” Trump wrote, “Chief of Staff to Attorney General Jeff Sessions at the Department of Justice, will become our new Acting Attorney General of the United States. He will serve our Country well.”We are pleased to announce that Matthew G. Whitaker, Chief of Staff to Attorney General Jeff Sessions at the Department of Justice, will become our new Acting Attorney General of the United States. He will serve our Country well….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018“We thank Attorney General Jeff Sessions for his service,” Trump added, “and wish him well! A permanent replacement will be nominated at a later date.”….We thank Attorney General Jeff Sessions for his service, and wish him well! A permanent replacement will be nominated at a later date.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018Under the law, Whitaker can serve up to 210 days while the president finds a permanent replacement for Sessions.Whitaker, a long-time Republican operative, is a former U.S. district attorney in Des Moines, Iowa who mounted an unsuccessful Senate bid in 2014. He joined the United States Justice Department in September 2017, serving as Sessions’ chief of staff.Whitaker’s ascension to Acting Attorney General is unusual. Typically, the deputy AG steps into that role. Under normal circumstances, Sessions’ successor would be his deputy, Rod Rosenstein.Because Sessions 'resigned.' If Trump had fired Sessions directly, Rosenstein would be AG. Because Sessions 'resigned' Trump can appoint anyone he likes until the Senate goes back in session.see: The Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998.—  (@effdot) November 7, 2018As of Wednesday afternoon, Rosenstein’s role overseeing Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation came to an abrupt end. Whitaker will be taking over.The Acting Attorney General is in charge of all matters under the purview of the Department of Justice, said Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores.Like Trump, Whitaker has decried Mueller’s probe as a “witch hunt” and has inherited the authority to fire Rosenstein, whom Whitaker has urged to order Mueller to limit the scope of his investigation to the four corners of the order appointing him special counsel.Sessions abdicated his power to fire Rosenstein when he recused himself from the Russia investigation last year.If [Mueller] were to continue to investigate the financial relationships without a broadened scope in his appointment, then this would raise serious concerns that the special counsels investigation was a mere witch hunt, Whitaker wroteon CNN.comlast August.Speaking to Don Lemon last summer, Whitaker predicted that Trump would “try to get Rod to maybe even cut the budget of Bob Mueller.I think what ultimately the president is going to start doing is putting pressure on Rod Rosenstein, who is in charge of this investigation, Whitaker said, and really try to get Rod to maybe even cut the budget of Bob Mueller and do something a little more stage crafty than the blunt instrument of firing the attorney general and trying to replace him.Whitaker has also said, as the president has as well, that Mueller digging into Trump’s finances would be a red line that Mueller is dangerously close to crossing.It does not take a lawyer or even a former federal prosecutor like myself to conclude that investigating Donald Trumps finances or his familys finances falls completely outside of the realm of his 2016 campaign, he wrote in a CNN op-ed. That goes beyond the scope of the appointment of the special counsel.Thus, Whitaker’s appointment greatly imperils Mueller, and as such, the truth.Democrats, having scored a tremendous victory winning control of the House in the midterms, are prepared to take on Trump.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), who will likely reclaim the speakership in January, accused Trump of firing Sessions in order to meddle in the Mueller probe.“It is impossible to read Attorney General Sessions firing as anything other than another blatant attempt by President Trump to undermine & end Special Counsel Muellers investigation.”House Minority Leader Pelosi: "It is impossible to read Attorney General Sessions firing as anything other than another blatant attempt by President Trump to undermine & end Special Counsel Muellers investigation."— NBC News (@NBCNews) November 7, 2018California Congressman Eric Swalwell, a Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, called upon Congress to protect Mueller, an issue which has garnered bipartisan support.Its time to #ProtectMueller. Theres already bipartisan support in Senate. House should pass legislation immediately. @realDonaldTrump may act like hes above the facts but hes not above the law.— Rep. Eric Swalwell (@RepSwalwell) November 7, 2018Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) said in a tweet that Sessions’ firing hastens a looming constitutional crisis. She joined Swalwell’s call for Congress to act..@realDonaldTrumps firing of Jeff Sessions brings us one step closer to a constitutional crisis. Congress must act to ensure that Special Counsel Mueller can do his job without interference.— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) November 7, 2018Representative Jerry Nadler (D-NY), poised to become the chair of the powerful House Judiciary Committee, demanded Trump explain why he asked Sessions to step down and that the president will be held accountable.“Americans must have answers immediately as to the reasoning behind @realDonaldTrump removing Jeff Sessions from @TheJusticeDept, Nadler vowed. “Why is the President making this change and who has authority over Special Counsel Muellers investigation? We will be holding people accountable.”Americans must have answers immediately as to the reasoning behind @realDonaldTrump removing Jeff Sessions from @TheJusticeDept. Why is the President making this change and who has authority over Special Counsel Muellers investigation? We will be holding people accountable. https://t.co/weykMuiCxm— (((Rep. Nadler))) (@RepJerryNadler) November 7, 2018Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) learned of Sessions’ departure while speaking to reporters about Democrats’ performance on Tuesday.Oh, he said as he was handed a note, protecting Mueller and his investigation is paramount.”It would create a constitutional crisis if this were a prelude to ending or greatly limiting the Mueller investigation,” Schumer added, “And I hope President Trump and those he listens to will refrain from that.”Later, Schumer responded to Trump’s tweet: “Clearly, the President has something to hide.”Clearly, the President has something to hide. https://t.co/m1sQV9oBwl— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) November 7, 2018Schumer also called on Whitaker to recuse himself from the Russia investigation because of the conflicts of interest stemming from his past remarks.BREAKING: Chuck Schumer just called on Matthew Whitaker to recuse himself from the Russia probe. Everyone in Congress should also demand he recuse immediately.— Scott Dworkin (@funder) November 7, 2018Reactions from the public continued on social media.As Politico’s Rachel Bade notes, Nadler will head the committee that oversees Trump’s potential impeachment.AND SO IT BEGINS: Future House Judiciary Committee Chairman @RepJerryNadler suggesting he'll use his gavel to investigate Trump's decision to fire Sessions. This is the same panel that deals w/impeachment –> https://t.co/V64xnHXRO9— Rachael Bade (@rachaelmbade) November 7, 2018Mueller is now subject to hard right winger Matt Whitaker (not yet confirmed). Whitaker will do any damn thing Trump tells him to do. And you can bet that whoever he names to replace Sessions permanently will also be Trump's lap dog. This was the plan if Dems took the House.— CALL: 202-224-3121 (@sevenbowie) November 7, 2018watch Judiciary or Oversight hire Mueller's staff as committee counsel.— Edward Branley (@YatPundit) November 7, 20181. Trump has long said he's not happy with Sessions.  2. Sessions is not in charge of the "Russia" bullshit…he recused himself…so…why the hyperventilating over firing Sessions?  Answer: because whatever Trump does is impeachable.— Meowy Christmas Meownald Trump (@BarnesyBub) November 7, 2018As expected with such bombshell news, Twitter exploded.	Liberal
After a black reporter asked President Donald Trumpabout his self-professed nationalism, he dismissed her inquiry as “racist.”There are some people that say that now the Republican Party is seen as supporting white nationalists because of your rhetoric,Yamiche Alcindor of the PBS Newshour had said.I dont know why youd say that, the president replied. Thats such a racist question.President Trump to @Yamiche: "That's a racist question." pic.twitter.com/4bgrMjQFZk— CSPAN (@cspan) November 7, 2018The president proceeded to express disbelief at Alcindor’s question.Oh, I dont believe that, Trump said. I dont believe that. I dont believe that. I dont know  why do I have my highest poll numbers ever with African Americans? Why do I have among the highest poll numbers with African Americans? I mean, why do I have my highest poll numbers?“Thats such a racist question,” he said again. “Honestly, I know you have it written down and youre going to tell me. Let me tell you, thats a racist question.Alcindor documented the exchange on her Twitter account:I asked President Trump what he thinks of people seeing his rhetoric as emboldening white nationalists and whether he was concerned that Republicans would be seen as supporting white nationalists.His response: "That's a racist question."— Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) November 7, 2018I'm simply asking the questions the public wants to know. https://t.co/bZ1cZVBKhd— Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) November 7, 2018Alcindor noted that sheas shown in the video footage abovefollowed up with a question “about his proposed middle class tax cut” because “that’s what journalists do.”A note: I followed up the president calling my question "racist" with a policy question about his proposed middle class tax cut because that's what journalists do. We press on. We focus on the privilege of asking questions for a living. We do the work.— Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) November 7, 2018She added that she asked the question because even if the president “doesn’t intend it, some see him as directly appealing to racists.”Ive personally interviewed white nationalists who say they are more excited by President Trump than other presidents in the past. Even if President Trump doesnt intend it, some see him as directly appealing to racists. https://t.co/nqJAmMs63y— Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) November 7, 2018Other members of the press came to Alcindor’s defense:.@Yamiche asked a fair and important question about whether Trump's embrace of the "nationalist" label is an embrace of "white nationalism."Trump replied by saying, repeatedly, "That's such a racist question," and told Yamiche, "What you just said is so insulting to me."— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) November 7, 2018Just rewatched the clip of @yamiche questioning the president today — paradigm for keeping your cool and sticking with an important line of questioning when a politician starts blasting away. Standing her ground, sans grandstanding…https://t.co/pK3EYBn3jS— Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) November 7, 2018Trump accusing @Yamiche of asking a "racist question" is something— Sam Stein (@samstein) November 7, 2018Trump accuses PBS NewsHour's journalist Yamiche Alcindor of asking "a racist question." She does not take the bait.— Jeremy Barr (@jeremymbarr) November 7, 2018#Trump just called @Yamiche question racist because she asked about nationalism. Just a complete distraction from a legitimate question.— Maya Wiley (@mayawiley) November 7, 2018	Liberal
Senator Joe Manchin (D-WVA) pummeled President Donald Trump after cruising to reelection in the Blue Wave that propelled Democrats to victory Tuesday night.Manchin,one of the most vulnerable Senate Democrats leading up to the midterms, defeated Republican West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey despite a substantial push by Trump and Vice President Mike Pence in the Mountain State.That projected Manchin win in WV comes despite a MAJOR effort on the part of the Trump family for Morrisey  Donald Trump Jr. was in the state yesterday, and President Trump rallied in WV a whopping 5 times— Meridith McGraw (@meridithmcgraw) November 7, 2018Speaking to reporters in Charleson, West Virginia Tuesday evening, Manchin swiped at Trump for not being able to engineer a Republican victory in a state the president carried by more than 40 points in 2016.Joe Manchin wins. In a state Donald Trump won by 43 points in 2016.— Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) November 7, 2018“Let me say that I never expected that this race would be the national race it turned out to be,” Manchin said in his victory speech. “I never expected President Trump to come to this state as much as he did, sending Vice President Pence, sending his family, time after time. And you stood tall.”Manchin added:“What you said, what West Virginia said, loud and clear tonight: ‘Mr. President, we want our senator, not your senator.'”Manchin also slammed Trump’s “toxic rhetoric” and urged the president to act as a more unifying figure.“When I raise my hand and swear to God to uphold the Constitution, that’s for everybody. That is for everybody. And we’ve got to stop this absolute toxic rhetoric that’s going on in this country  we have got to stop this toxic rhetoric,” he said. “We’ve got to bring people together. Mr. President, I want you to be a president of the United States, not the divided states.”In an interview with Business Insider following his victory speech, Manchin proudly stated that “no one’s ever won in a state where the president had a 42-point spread,” emphasizing his state’s voters rebuke of Trump.“I’m not angry because he came here so many times,” Manchin said of Trump’s kingmaker support of Morrisey. “Why should he be angry that I’m telling the truth? I don’t think so.”Manchin, though having drawn scorn from liberals for his vote to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, still felt that sting on Twitter.As the lone Senate Democrat to vote to confirm Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, Joe Manchin is feeling pretty good about that call right now.Live West Virginia results: https://t.co/Q9wADvAqao pic.twitter.com/pFzyACFcfg— POLITICO (@politico) November 7, 2018Trump-backed candidate, Patrick Morrissey, has lost to Joe Manchin in the West Virginia Senate race. Trump's "Rally Speech" ineffective. @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/ynTCr78YMK— Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Hes not a true Democrat, but well take the lesser of two evils.— Chelsea Thompson (@MsChelseaT) November 7, 2018why is that so shocking, he votes with Trump.— T London #VetsResistSupportSquadron (@TbirdlondonT) November 7, 2018He voted for Kavanaugh!— saltreselaw (@sandrasaltrese) November 7, 2018Still, others were thankful that Manchin survived, as Democrats need all the help they can get.	Liberal
Mike Levin, an environmental activist and Democratic politician, has been declared the winner in California’s 49th District, earning 53.5 percent of the vote, according to the most up-to-date returns. His opponent, Republican Diane Harkey, received 46.5 percent of the vote.BREAKING: Democrat Mike Levin wins election to U.S. House in California's 49th congressional district. #APracecall at 12:25 p.m. PST. @AP election coverage: https://t.co/miEWlbTVZW #Election2018 #CAelection— AP Politics (@AP_Politics) November 7, 2018Levin thanked his supporters for helping him flip the district in a series of televised appearances.Great first stop this morning on @nbcsandiego!  Im so proud of everyone who worked so hard to finally #FlipThe49th! pic.twitter.com/KqMvrsRHoU— Mike Levin (@MikeLevinCA) November 7, 2018Terrific second stop on ABC @10News this morning.  For all of those who worked so hard to #FlipThe49th, THANK YOU! pic.twitter.com/UvTekNZoiX— Mike Levin (@MikeLevinCA) November 7, 2018Stop #3 this morning on @fox5sandiego!  Thanks to all who joined us last night and who made this outcome in #CA49 a reality! #FlipThe49th pic.twitter.com/Y5k2eLhNQ5— Mike Levin (@MikeLevinCA) November 7, 2018Levin sought the seat after the 2016 election, once telling reporters: “Really, when Donald Trump became president of the United States, I was there in New York watching election returns, and I realized on the way home that the time is now for all of us.”Earlier, retiring RepresentativeDarrell Issa predicted that Levin would win.My district was never in play this cycle. And so it was never funded and quite frankly we know the results already and there will be a Democrat representing La Jolla to Solana Beach for the first time in a number of years, he said in a live interview.Retiring Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) makes an early call: "It will be a Democrat representing La Jolla to Solana Beach for the first time in a number of years." pic.twitter.com/uJkILd0sFq— TPM Livewire (@TPMLiveWire) November 6, 2018I have to remind people I took that part of the district from a Democrat and someday it will be taken back, Issa said. For now California is leaning very hard to the left.The seat in the 49th District, which stretches betweenSan Diego and Long Beach, had been open since Issa announced his retirement from politics.In the primary election in June,Levin came in second in total votes to Harkey and advanced to the general election. Levin has received endorsements from former President Barack Obama andtheLeague of Conservation Voters(LCV) Action Fund.	Liberal
Far-Right political commentator Ann Coulter is known for saying incendiary things to get the media’s attention.That’s just what she did after what was, all in all, a successful 2018 midterms for the Democrats. One of the most stunning outcomes is that of the Kansas gubernatorial race, which saw Democrat Laura Kelly defeat Kris Kobach by seven points in the mostly Republican state.Kelly said in her victory speech:There will be a lot of talk around America about the blue wave, but I dont believe thats whats happened here in Kansas. What happened in Kansas was a wave of common sense, a wave of bipartisanship.If there are two things that upset Ann Coulter, it’s common sense and bipartisanship. She took to Twitter to vent her dismay.Kansas is dead to me.— Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) November 7, 2018The strong statement garnered a wealth of responses, but none so perfect as writer Matt Oswalt’s:did it drop another house on your sister? https://t.co/p2MZY8TpTI— Matt Oswalt (@MattOswaltVA) November 7, 2018Kansas, of course, is where the beginning of “The Wizard of Oz” takes place, in which protagonist Dorothy quite literally drops a house on the sister of the Wicked Witch of the West. While we normally wouldn’t condone referring to a man referring to a woman as a witch in 2018, Coulter has said far worse in what can only be construed as a concentrated effort to earn the moniker. When referring to the murder of Kansas abortion doctor George Tiller, Coulter said:“I don’t really like to think of it as a murder. It was terminating Tiller in the 203rd trimester.”Coulter’s long history of hateful statements is likely why so many celebrated Oswalt’s takedown.I keep popping back just to look at this tweet, like the perfect little thing it is.— Rufus Sewell (@FredrikSewell) November 7, 2018Im so dead I might not even die when I actually die because I will have been dead too long.— Taylor (@TaylorSaracen) November 7, 2018 pic.twitter.com/nytlgT8EIy— Patricia Ogura (@PatriciaOgura) November 7, 2018YOU ARE GENIUS— Sinn Sage (@sinnsage) November 7, 2018 pic.twitter.com/AGtJC1lyvW— Angry Abuela (@AngryAbuelita11) November 7, 2018Historic tweet.— Mark Harris (@MarkHarrisNYC) November 7, 2018In addition to electing a Democratic governor, Kansas voters made a landmark flip in the House of Representatives as well.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Wednesday threatened Democrats with investigations if the new House majority uses its subpoena power to investigate the president, referring to any further digging into his tax returns or business dealings as a waste of taxpayer money.“If the Democrats think they are going to waste Taxpayer Money investigating us at the House level,” Trump tweeted,“then we will likewise be forced to consider investigating them for all of the leaks of Classified Information, and much else, at the Senate level. Two can play that game!”If the Democrats think they are going to waste Taxpayer Money investigating us at the House level, then we will likewise be forced to consider investigating them for all of the leaks of Classified Information, and much else, at the Senate level. Two can play that game!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough fired back at Trump’s bluster on Morning Joe this morning by pointing out that Trump and the Republican Party no longer have unilateral power in Washington.“Here’s the news. Two are playing at that game, not one anymore. This is not a one-party system anymore.”Scarborough, a former GOP Congressman who left the Republican Party because of his disgust with Trump, explained that Tuesday’s midterm elections are proof that our electoral system is still functioning.“The system works,” Scarborough said. “Madison’s system of checks and balances worked.”Scarborough then praised Democrats for mounting a successful insurgency to Trump, culminating in winning control of the U.S. House of Representatives for the first time in a decade.“The Democrats in the House helped put together and support some pretty extraordinary candidates that knew how to win Republican districts,” Scarborough said. “They are big winners,” he continued. “Let’s tip our hats to the Democrats in the House. They put together great candidates and a great message and actually got a higher percentage of the vote in 2018 than the Tea Party did in 2010.”Watch the full clip here.Twitter tore into Trump for his “waste taxpayer money” nonsense.Fixed it for you….If the Democrats, who were duly elected by the American people, think they are going to perform their constitutionally mandated oversight duties, I am going to abuse my power as President.— Jeff McKown (@waythingsturn) November 7, 2018How much taxpayer money has been spent on presidential vacations at Trump properties?"waste Taxpayers Money?" …like golf trips every weekend, rallies a couple of times a week… kinda like that, right?— Wendell M. Young (@wendmyoung) November 7, 2018That spending needs to be on the list of things to investigate. I bet that they can find enough that we are improperly paying for to fund several investigations.— Lauren Down South (@LaurenDownSouth) November 7, 2018Someone is shitting his pants now huh. You've wasted plenty of my tax dollars on your stupid golf trips and #GOPTaxScam. Can't wait for all your corruptions and fraud to be exposed. #TraitorTrump #TrumptheNewHitler— Simon *I Vote* (@JFiguer1) November 7, 2018The mans favorite hobby seems to be obstructing justice— Mel #FamiliesBelongTogether (@MDemforce) November 7, 2018The country rejected Trumpism last night.The country spoke loudly, Mr. President. The people want checks and balances restored to our constitutional government. That's how the system was designed to work.— Dave Hogg (@stareagle) November 7, 2018Governing isn’t a game, and the Senate is not at Trump’s disposal to do with as he pleases (at least, let’s hope not).Its not a game. You also dont have a supermajority in the senate— LRG (@cccharley2) November 7, 2018Additionally, the senate doesnt work for you. They work for the people. If they snap to your attention we have a dictatorship. We dont. Go read the constitution— LRG (@cccharley2) November 7, 2018Mr President youre about to experience CHECKS AND BALANCES.? Arent you excited?— Russell (@russmove) November 7, 2018Big night for Democrats. Took House Majority, turned 33 seats. Flipped 7 Governorships. Popular vote by 8%. With any other Republican President the Senate would have been a super majority for Republicans #DumpTrump—  Christopher Zullo (@ChrisJZullo) November 7, 2018But the fun is only just beginning.	Liberal
People observed election day 2018 in various ways. But one Twitter usergoing by “Ally Maynard” and describing themselves as “writer / producer / wannabe cool dad. I make stuff for tv and the internet, but mostly for myself”vowed on Tuesday afternoon to spend the night engaged with President Donald Trump on Twitter.The President loves to use Twitter as a means of communicating his ideas and policies to the world. During the 2018 campaign heading into the midterms, Trump tweets included endorsements for a variety of Republicans.Ally Maynard decided to keep the President informed on election night regarding those GOP candidates he endorsed with a tweet or two.Maynard posted:“Trump has endorsed 11 Republicans running for Governor, 31 House candidates and 13 Senate candidates and I’ve screenshot every one of them and will let him know every one that loses.”Trump has endorsed 11 Republicans running for Governor, 31 House candidates and 13 Senate candidates and I’ve screenshot every one of them and will let him know every one that loses. Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Then Maynard proceeded to follow through, tagging the President in each tweet and screenshotting his initial Twitter endorsement for good measure.And it was a lot.Trump-backed candidate, Jim Renacci, has lost to Sherrod Brown in the Ohio Senate race. He got crushed. @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/mmP5OywMn2 Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Trump-backed candidate, Leah Vukmir, has lost to Tammy Baldwin, the only out lesbian in the U.S. Senate. Womp womp @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/tgkVEs0Ifl Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Trump-backed candidate, Bob Hugin, has lost to Bob Menendez in the New Jersey Senate race. Sad. @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/PehigWmk07 Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Trump-backed candidate, Keith Rothfus, has lost to Conor Lamb and Democrats flip the district blue. @realDonaldTrump called this race a “must win.” pic.twitter.com/X3Vd2IlfUQ Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Maynard added snippets of commentary to each post, as well as a screenshot of the tweet announcing the winner to let Trump know the results for his candidate.Trump-backed candidate, Patrick Morrissey, has lost to Joe Manchin in the West Virginia Senate race. Trump’s “Rally Speech” ineffective. @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/ynTCr78YMK Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018When Ho Chunk tribal member Sharice Davids made history twice with her winbecoming the first Native American woman to be elected to Congress and the first out LGBTQ person to serve KansasMaynard made certain the President knew.Trump-backed candidate, Kevin Yoder, has lost to Native American and openly gay attorney Sharice Davids in Kansas’ 3rd District. #MAGA @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/c4oqGjnoHn Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Later in the night, Davids would be joined by Laguna Pueblo member Deb Haaland of New Mexico making the number of Native women elected to Congress two.Maynard also made sure Trump knew when his close allies lost, like voter fraud conspiracy theory pushing Kris Kobach.Trump-backed candidate and disgraced Vice Chairman of the bogus Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, Kris Kobach, has lost to Laura Kelly in the race for Kansas Governor. @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/0YguFJWv0f Ally Maynard (@missmayn) November 7, 2018Each time, Maynard ensured the President would know the latest news by tagging his official Twitter account.	Liberal
Now that Democrats have formally taken control of the House of Representatives, President Donald Trump will find himself having to comply with investigations into members of his administration.Representative Elijah Cummings (D-MD), who will chair the House Oversight Committee, has signaled he will launch probes into the Trump administration after taking office on January 3:I want to look at all the things the president has done that go against the mandates of our Founding Fathers in the Constitution, he said.We need accountability, transparency, integrity, and honesty from this Administration.Cummings has wasted no time: His committee has already compiled a list of 64 subpoenas and inquiries into Trump administration activities that were denied when Republicans controlled the chamber. The budget for the Democrats will allow them to hire lawyers and investigators and fill key staffing positions.The majority will have the power to issue subpoenas and demand records and testimony from administration officials. The majority will also have the power to request the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) turn over Trump’s tax returns, which he has made every effort to conceal from public view.Dem majority in House wont be enjoyable for WH. I spoke w two key committee chairs, Elijah Cummings and Jerry Nadler, and they lay out what they want to do: Cummings: Probe voting rights and whether Trump violated emoluments clause. We probably will seek Trump tax returns— Manu Raju (@mkraju) November 7, 2018Cummings says that he will not lose sight of issues important to his constituents, such as the high prices of prescription drugs, as he contends with investigating the Trump administration.Cummings said they would also look into matters involving the use of security clearances in the Trump administration — and day-to-day issues affecting many Americans, such as high prices of prescription drugs and insurance coverage for people with pre-existing conditions— Manu Raju (@mkraju) November 7, 2018“I’m not looking for retribution, life is too short, he said.While we are dealing with whatever may come in the storm of Trump, I have to keep in mind that there are people who have to live day to day.Cummings retained his seat representing Maryland’s Seventh District, receiving 76 percent of the vote according to the most up to date returns. He thanked his supporters as the race was called last night.“I am immensely grateful for the opportunity to continue to serve you,” he wrote.Thank you, voters of Marylands seventh district for showing your faith in me and electing me to represent you in Congress. I am immensely grateful for the opportunity to continue to serve you. https://t.co/j24XCohyu2— Elijah E. Cummings (@RepCummings) November 7, 2018Many agree that Cummings, a noted critic of the administration, will be a “force to be reckoned with” as chair of the Oversight Committee.Elijah Cummings chairing House Oversight will be a force to be reckoned with.— Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) November 7, 2018Of all the ups and downs of election night up and down the ballot, the single most consequential result could be this: House Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings, D-Md.— Gregory Korte (@gregorykorte) November 7, 2018As Trump revels in key Senate victories, he should think about this:— Elijah Cummings will be chair of the Oversight Cmte— Adam Schiff will be chair of the Intel Cmte— Jerry Nadler will be chair of the Judiciary Cmte— Maxine Waters will be chair of the House Fin Serv Cmte— Brian Goldsmith (@GoldsmithB) November 7, 2018I’m looking forward to Elijah Cummings sitting @USRepGaryPalmer down and giving Rep. Palmer a civics lesson about why their Oversight Committee will proceed with massive investigations of Trump’s massive conflicts of interest. #alpolitics https://t.co/GUeSHzENWm Rob Shattuck (@RobShattuckAL06) November 6, 2018	Liberal
Withresults still coming in, newsmedia projected the Democratic Party fulfilled their goal of flipping the United States House of Representatives from red to blue.And at almost 3:00am EST Wednesday morning, it became official when Democrats were declared the winners in 218 House seats.The 116th Congress will convene in January 2019 with Democrats in control of the House.The House flipped from blue to red in the 2012 presidential election year. The 114th and 115th Congress saw Republicans controlling both houses after successfully taking control of the Senate from the Democrats during the 2014 midterm election.MSNBC first projected a Democratic flip of the House with CNN, NBC and The New York Times following soon after.NYT is projecting Democrats win a ~9% margin in the House popular vote. The last time we saw a margin like that was 08, amidst a collapsing economy and a loathed war.Unemployment is 3.7% right now. America isn’t at war. A margin this big is nuts  a pure repudiation of Trump. Ezra Klein (@ezraklein) November 7, 2018Democrat Jennifer Wexton of Virginia beat incumbent Republican Barbara Comstock of Virginia to flip the first seat in the House.@RepComstock May I introduce to your replacement @JenniferWexton #ChangeIsHere ????@LoveIndivisible #VA10 pic.twitter.com/s7wUAueV8Y ??Vote November 6?? (@CondieKristine) November 7, 2018She was soon followed by Democrat Donna Shalala winning the seat of retiring Republican Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen in Florida.Other notable Democratic wins included Sharice Davids of Kansas and Deb Haaland of New Mexico who will became the first Native American women to ever serve in Congress. Ayanna Pressley became the first Black woman to represent Massachusetts in Congress..@sharicedavids becomes the first-ever Native American woman to serve in the House and the first openly gay representative from Kansas. About time! In fact, well past time. Congratulations, Sharice. Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) November 7, 2018Democrat Sharice Davids has defeated Republican Kevin Yoder in Kansas.She is the first Native American women to serve in Congress and the first openly LGBT person to represent Kansas. This is an important first.#ElectionDay #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/kK3lpKDgnh Denizcan Grimes (@MrFilmkritik) November 7, 2018HISTORIC: The race has been called!Congratulations, Deb Haaland – Congresswoman for New Mexicos 1st District. #NativeVote18 #NMpol pic.twitter.com/DbQSgYVkgM Din Millennials Today (@DineMillennials) November 7, 2018#BREAKING: Democrat Ayanna Pressley is projected to win in Massachusetts’ 7th Congressional District, becoming the first African-American woman to be elected to Congress in state history. https://t.co/aEbQQMVVRY pic.twitter.com/OMj07Vx4RW NPR Politics (@nprpolitics) November 7, 2018Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota become the first Muslim women to win seats in Congress as well.BREAKING: Rashida Tlaib is the first Palestinian-American woman and the first Muslim woman ever elected to U.S. Congress. #Midterms2018 pic.twitter.com/EEOuMTMibE AJ+ (@ajplus) November 7, 2018Not 1, but TWO Muslim American congresswomen officially WIN tonight.Congratulations to Rashida Tlaib out of Michigan, and Ilhan Omar out of Minnesota. #HerStory #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/IRRflZvcK7 Khaled Beydoun (@KhaledBeydoun) November 7, 2018And New York Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez becomes the youngest woman ever elected to Congress.HISTORIC FIRST: New York Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez becomes the youngest woman elected to Congress, CNN projects https://t.co/AzrH2GfqYl #CNNElection pic.twitter.com/0GZxroyUej CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk) November 7, 2018New Democratic Representatives begin their terms in January. Several notableGOP incumbents failed to win their reelection bids.Democrats flipped seats in Florida, New York, Kansas, Iowa, Colorado, Illinois, Minnesota, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Arizona, South Carolina, Oklahoma and Texas. The GOP flipped two seats, one in Pennsylvania and one in Minnesota.In Maine’s 2nd Congressional district, the state’s new ranked choice voting came into play as neither of the two frontrunners, incumbent Republican Bruce Poliquin nor Democratic challenger Jared Golden managed to garner over 50 percent of voter support.Maine became the first state in the nation to begin using ranked choice voting which allows voters to rank all candidates in order of their preference on the ballot, making a 1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc… choice. Those rankings are used to decide the winner if no candidate receives over 50 percent of the initial tally. Once all precincts are at 100 percent reported, the instant runoff process begins using voters ranked choices.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi predicted a Democratic win, but people had doubts.pic.twitter.com/ScmCogzBol Helene Holstein (@HelHathNoFury) November 7, 2018“Today is more than about Democrats and Republicans. It’s about restoring the Constitution’s checks and balances to the Trump administration,” says Nancy Pelosi, shortly after CNN projects that Democrats will take control of the House https://t.co/BvsJ35AvPQ pic.twitter.com/8LWJbEXMhk CNN (@CNN) November 7, 2018People blamed outgoing Speaker of the House Paul Ryanwho retired rather than run for reelection.And its a Paul Ryan fail and not a Trump referendum ABcync (@Abcync) November 7, 2018If we had any Speaker other than swamp rat Paul Ryan the House wouldn’t even be in question.#DrainTheSwamp DOUG ???? ?? Switch 625 ?? (@Doug625) November 7, 2018While the President referred to the night as a success despite losses in the House and in Governor’s races.Tremendous success tonight. Thank you to all! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2018For your records, @realDonaldTrump. In case you were wondering. https://t.co/MZUWcNwfGk Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) November 7, 2018Plenty of people celebrated online. 	Liberal
Democrat Sharice Davids, an attorney and economics adviser, won the race for Kansas’ Third District,which includes Johnson and Wyandotte counties and parts of Miami County. Davids received 53.3 percent of the vote. Her opponent, the incumbent Representative Kevin Yoder, received 44.2 percent of the vote.A member of theHo-Chunk Nation, Davids is the first Native American woman elected to Congress. She might share that distinction withNew Mexico Democrat Deb Haaland if Haaland prevails in her House race tonight. She is also the first LGBT politician to represent Kansas at the federal level.Yoder had previously expressed confidence that he would win the general election, citing his performance during the recent Kansas City Star-hosted debate. Davids and Yoder had spenta combined $8.2 million on the race. Outside groups had spent $7.5 million on the race.Weve felt a noticeable shift over the past week to two weeks in momentum of folks coming back home, whether they were for us and are now more energized or whether they were undecided, Yoder said at the time.We talk to people every day wherever we go that say, Oh my gosh, that debate.'”The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC)spent $497,000 as of September 2018 on ads criticizing Yoder. The group EMILY’S List spent $399,000 on similar media, according toBallotpedia.Davids previously worked as a White House Fellow in the Department of Transportation. She has also served chair of the board of directors of Twelve Clans, Inc. for the Ho-Chunk Nation. Additionally, she’s served as deputy director for the Thunder Valley Community Development Corporation on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.Davids’ platform emphasized the economy: She has proposed a tax cut for the middle class and creating a childcare tax credit. She has also suggested that Kansas capitalize on wind energy due to its location, which boasts some of the nation’s highest potential. Davids has also expressed support fortax incentives that promote wind and similar energy sources. On the matter of health care, she’s promotedthe continued expansion of Medicaid.TheKansas City Star endorsed Davids. The editorial board wrote:Davids has never held elective office. What she lacks in experience, though, she more than makes up for with intelligence and thoughtfulness. She does not believe she has all the answers to every problem facing the country, but she is willing to listen and to think through potential solutions, rare qualities in contemporary politics.That approach will serve the 3rd District well.The board highlighted some of her policy proposals while setting the record straight around Davids’ perception of immigration reform and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE):Davids believesthe U.S. should require insurance companies to offer coverage at a reasonable cost to patients with pre-existing medical conditions. She thinks Medicaid coverage should be expanded in every state. She wants toimprove Obamacare, not repeal it.Davids thinks taxes should be reduced for those with lower incomes and believes moretax cuts for the wealthy are unnecessaryand counterproductive. She says federal law should prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.Despite what youve heard,she does not support eliminating Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But she does think immigration laws should be improved, and she supports providing eventual citizenship for young children brought to the U.S. by immigrant parents.	Liberal
Fox News and its staffers on Tuesday condemned Sean Hannity and Jeanine Pirro’s appearance and participation at President Donald Trump’s rally in Missouri Monday night.In a statement, a spokesperson for Fox said the network does not “condone” Hannity and Pirro’s presence at the event and that the optics of it have been a “distraction.”“Fox News does not condone any talent participating in campaign events. We have an extraordinary team of journalists helming our coverage tonight and we are extremely proud of their work. This was an unfortunate distraction and has been addressed.”The person declined to comment on how Fox addressed the situation internally, if at all. Fox staffers, however, are not happy about what their high-powered colleagues did.“People throughout the company think a new line was crossed,” one employee anonymously told CNN Business.“It disturbs me to my core,” another said. “I am so f—ing mad.”A third Fox employee said they “never expected” to see Hannity and Pirro joining Trump on stage.“We were all told that Hannity was going to interview the president, but no one that I spoke with expected what happened last night,” they said. “I’m aghast as are a number of other people.”Others expressed dismay over management’s lack of disciplinary action.“The whole thing is just so embarrassing that this guy basically has free rein to do whatever he wants, and management is either helpless or uninterested in doing anything about it,” said one Fox News employee.Hannity’s behavior“continues to make the task of the news side all that much harder,” complained another.In a tweet on Tuesday, Hannity defended his actions, saying his impromptu remarks were unplanned and that he essentially got swept up in the moment.“What I said in my tweet yesterday was 100% truthful,” Hannity wrote. “When the POTUS invited me on stage to give a few remarks last night, I was surprised, yet honored by the president’s request. This was NOT planned.”What I said in my tweet yesterday was 100% truthful. When the POTUS invited me on stage to give a few remarks last night, I was surprised, yet honored by the presidents request. This was NOT planned.— Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) November 6, 2018“To be clear,” Hannity continued in a second tweet, “I was not referring to my journalist colleagues at FOX News in those remarks. They do amazing work day in and day out in a fair and balanced way and it is an honor to work with such great professionals.”To be clear, I was not referring to my journalist colleagues at FOX News in those remarks. They do amazing work day in and day out in a fair and balanced way and It is an honor to work with such great professionals. Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) November 6, 2018On social media, people were not surprised at the stunt, and are skeptical that Fox truly believes Hannity and Pirro made a mistake.What is the difference between these employees and gutless @JeffFlake lamenting the problem on twitter without ever DOING a damn thing about it. Fox is NOT a news station, and this is not a revelation we learned last night— dthau24 (@dthau24) November 6, 2018"Fox News journalists" – so… Shep is mad?— Upgrayedd (@jayacoop) November 6, 2018Probably addressed with praise and a pat on the back.— Mike Dorsey (@DorseyFilm) November 6, 2018Hannity’s show is one of Fox’s biggest moneymakers.	Liberal
“I miss Obama” is an oft-repeated sentiment from Americans since President Donald Trump’s inauguration in January of 2017.But no longer occupying the White House hasn’t stopped former President Barack Obama from using his influence and experience to help better the United States of America in some of the country’s most trying times.While Obama’s public appearances and speeches ahead of the 2018 midterms were well-publicized and lit in many Americans a wistful flame of pre-2016 nostalgia, the 44th President of the United States still wasn’t done. As it turns out, Obama accelerated his work for Democratic politicians in the final days before election day, recording over 50 robocalls, radio spots, and digital media, including for Florida governor hopeful Andrew Gillum.The former president recorded ads intended to play across several African American radio shows in an effort to get out the vote.The selflessness and focus from the 44th president had people on Twitter cheering.No wonder he's losing his voice. Thanks My forever President Barack Obama— Kikkay (@NikkisBubble) November 6, 2018Hes so damn awesome!— PamelaTarot (@PamelaTarot) November 6, 2018At last, the Barack Obama Ive known since 1989  since I had the amazing good fortune to be his teacher  has reemerged to remind Americans how a *real* president sounds and acts and why we must VOTE to check Trump on Tuesday.https://t.co/0wuYo7vkrW— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) November 3, 2018Obama is a hero— Tom Paine Today  (@TomPaineToday) November 3, 2018And, as expected, his actions only made the people miss him more.I've gotten several robocalls from Obama this week. I just want to scream into the phone, "COME BACK TO ME!"— Courtney Gifford (@cbgifford) November 6, 2018 pic.twitter.com/WN4ljhfc8u— Facts are not political. Lies are. (@ritarepulso) November 6, 2018I saved mine, just so I could here a President speak in full sentences, sigh…— Luscious (@LusciousJewlery) November 6, 2018I saved mine, just so I could here a President speak in full sentences, sigh…— Luscious (@LusciousJewlery) November 6, 2018For some, it brought a sense of relief.	Liberal
The fact that President Donald Trump frequently lies should come as a surprise to no one. Several organizations track Trump’s lies and false statements.But what about the President’s fans who attend his Make America Great Again rallies?The Huffington Post took the opportunity to speak to Trump fans at his recent MAGA rallies in Florida. They asked fans for their opinions on five of Trump’s favorite MAGA rally false claims:The truth?While some supporters made excuses or denied the truth, one woman’s NSFW response drew raised eyebrows and some questions.When the woman, who refused to give her name to Huffington Post, was asked if she worried that Trump would lie onstage during the MAGA rally she planned to attend, she responded:“I dont care if he sprouts a third dick up there.”.@svdate went to a Trump rally and asked his supporters if they care whether he lies all the time. One womans response: “I dont care if he sprouts a third dick up there. https://t.co/JpNvL6MCzM Amanda Terkel (@aterkel) November 5, 2018She declined to explain how many penises she believed the president already had. Trump lover admits lies wont shake her faith: I dont care if he sprouts a third dick up there https://t.co/qdcEpADtwi fracSkul (@fracSkul) November 6, 2018People had questions.Does…does she think he started with two? https://t.co/YQ31rI8Lkn Jessica Valenti (@JessicaValenti) November 6, 2018This is a lot for 7:15 am. Third? https://t.co/KJ2KfP9HkP Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) November 6, 2018Wait…does .@realDonaldTrump have two dicks already?! https://t.co/iRe9IOl6yT Jesse Soto (@chico541) November 6, 2018A third?!?!? Jayjaywells (@jayjaysaysso) November 6, 2018pic.twitter.com/KTBYB2yga4 Desiree kane (@SadaoDez) November 6, 2018But other people had answers.Everyone saying “wait, a third dick?” is overlooking the fact that in many of these places that voted for Trump, all the people have two dicks Rogue WH Snr Advisor (@RogueSNRadvisor) November 6, 2018Maybe you can have one and be one? thinkerdot (@whatdotthinks) November 6, 2018I guess if you count his head. lynn hazen (@LHwanderlust) November 6, 2018Well, he has one, and he is one. Math checks out. Turner Wright (@onceatraveler) November 6, 2018Maggie, 1st off trump is a dick, 2nd he has one, albeit a mushroom, so a 3rd makes sense. bluskyes2 (@bluskyes2) November 6, 2018A variety of answers.	Liberal
A 77-year-old Texas voter was moved to tears after she ran into Democratic Senate candidate Beto O’Rourke at her polling station Tuesday morning.The voter, “Pamela,” sported a BETO FOR SENATE t-shirt and hauled her oxygen tank to the ballot box in El Paso, Texas to vote for the three-term Congressman hoping to oust incumbent Republican Ted Cruz.MSNBC’s Garrett Haake asked Pamela how it felt to see O’Rourke and his family as she voted.“You were here when Beto came to cast his vote and you told me this was very emotional for you,” Haake said. “Why?”Pamela, fighting back tears, said she “wasn’t expecting” to see O’Rourke and that she thinks he is “pretty important,” adding that she and others are “honored” that O’Rourke “is here.”Haake followed up by asking Pamela why she feels O’Rourke is so important.Pamela’s powerful answer is all of us.“Because he represents everything Donald Trump isn’t.”The conversation continued.Haake: “Tell me what it means to you to see Beto who’s sort of a favorite son around here. We’re in his neighboorhood. He’s out here representing El Paso, hoping to represent the whole state. What has it meant for you to see what he’s been saying on the national stage?”Pamela: “Well, I give him a lot of credit for standing up and saying what he thinks and for being willing to represent so many people who are like-minded. It means a lot. We’re just so proud.”Haake: “What will it feel like if you see him win this race tonight?”Pamela’s emotional response was one of hope.“Everything. We want him to win. We’ll be watching the TV tonight. He’ll be someplace in the city. It will just be so much. It will mean that, my gosh, we still have a chance to have a decent country with decent values with decent relationships with people.”Watch the interview below:WATCH: Pamela, 77, with her oxygen tank and her BETO FOR SENATE T-shirt, fights back tears while talking about seeing Rep. O'Rourke while they both voted in Texas this morning: Were honored that he was here  We want him to win.https://t.co/qDB70fNNbp pic.twitter.com/zpapr62e1c— MSNBC (@MSNBC) November 6, 2018Social media joined Pamela in her Election Day feels.@Sarah_SKG_1983 @LA_Karma1 @gkanders @Sky_Lee_1 watch this video. I cried for her for us for this country.— Monica Fraker (@FrakerMonica) November 6, 2018This is why we vote. We vote for her not just for ourselves.— Monica Fraker (@FrakerMonica) November 6, 2018I love you Pamela and am crying right along with you! #BetoForEverything— Propane Jane (@docrocktex26) November 6, 2018Makes you feel good. Tears of joy. I share them with you both. #Election2018 #Vote— _()_/  Patrece (@havewhatusay) November 6, 2018::hugs:: #StrongerTogether— Propane Jane (@docrocktex26) November 6, 2018Voting felt SO FREAKING good this time!!! I cannot recommend it highly enough. You just have to see to for yourself.  RUN TO THE POLLS AND VOTE @BetoORourke— Emily G.  (@GoadWilks) November 6, 2018If this did not tug at your heart strings. I wish I was in Texas today to vote for #BetoORourke— Trisha Ann (@DestrosGirl) November 6, 2018Excitement for O’Rourke was also shared on Twitter.	Liberal
Massachusetts voters have the opportunity to solidify legal protections for transgender individuals on Tuesday.On the ballot is Question 3, which if passed by referendum would “add gender identity to the list of prohibited grounds for discrimination in places of public accommodation, resort, or amusement.” The measure, if affirmed, would uphold a law the Bay State legislature passed in 2016.“A YES VOTEwould keep in place the current law, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender identity in places of public accommodation,” writes Freedom for All Massachusetts, a non-profit group that promotes transgender equality. “NO VOTEwould repeal this provision of the public accommodation law.”Getting out the #YesOn3 vote in #Beverly! Today is the day we uphold dignity and respect for our #transgender neighbors and friends. #MAPoli pic.twitter.com/3S2Q3y812V— Vote Yes on 3 (@Freedom_Mass) November 6, 2018Keep Massachusetts Safe has raised more than $442,000 to convince voters to repeal the law that provides protection to transgender people,” Boston University noted on Monday, “while the Freedom for All Massachusetts group has raised substantially more nearly $5 millionto persuade voters to keep the law in place.”You may see one of our volunteers at your T stop this morning! We won't stop talking to voters until the clock strikes 8PM& every single ballot has been cast! #YesOn3 #MApoli pic.twitter.com/AhK1IeHvbW— Vote Yes on 3 (@Freedom_Mass) November 6, 2018“Places of public accommodation, resort, or amusement” means any place that grants access to and accepts patronage from the general public, “such as hotels, stores, restaurants, theaters, sports facilities, and hospitals,” may not discriminate based on gender identity, regardless of a person’s birth anatomy.“‘Gender identity’ is defined as a persons sincerely held gender-related identity, appearance, or behavior,” Freedom Massachusetts explains, “whether or not it is different from that traditionally associated with the persons physiology or assigned sex at birth.”If passed, Question 3 will require places of public congregation to grant access to gender-specific facilities, such as bathrooms, “consistent with a person’s gender identity.”Tonight, we want every #transgender person in #Massachusetts to know: We love you. We support you. And you have a massive movement standing beside you that will vote #YesOn3 tomorrow to uphold dignity and respect!  pic.twitter.com/aPimTPtrkl— Vote Yes on 3 (@Freedom_Mass) November 6, 2018Additionally, the lawprohibits placing signage advertising discrimination on the basis of gender identity.Ian & his family are counting on us to uphold fairness & dignity this year. Thats why they're speaking out, urging their neighbors in Massachusetts to vote #YesOn3 on November 6 to preserve protections for #transgender youth like him. https://t.co/d9PZr6gyHb #MApoli pic.twitter.com/88XB4lHNFb— Vote Yes on 3 (@Freedom_Mass) October 4, 2018Support for Question 3 is strong among Massachusetts voters. As of the end of October, polling shows that two-thirds of voters plan to vote ‘Yes’ on 3.Massachusetts Congressman Joe Kennedy (D), up for reelection, said Tuesday morning that voting ‘Yes’ on Question 3 represents “an opportunity to stand up against discrimination and bigotry.”Massachusetts  today we have an opportunity to stand up against discrimination and bigotry. Im voting #YesOn3 to uphold dignity and respect for our #transgender neighbors. I hope youll join me. https://t.co/CmhHeRcJt0— Joe Kennedy (@joekennedy) November 6, 2018Democratic House candidate Ayanna Pressley tweeted on Monday the importance of working to “defend the rights and dignity of our transgender neighbors.”I am proud to stand with @Freedom_Mass in their advocacy for #Yeson3. The work of hope, inclusion, justice, and equity is not magic, its work. And we need to continue to work until the polls close tomorrow to defend the rights and dignity of our transgender neighbors. pic.twitter.com/W0PbUljIFz— Ayanna Pressley (@AyannaPressley) November 5, 2018As did actor and activist George Takei.You know what to do, Massachusetts. #YesOn3 https://t.co/296f38OhAr— George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 5, 2018As did transgender actor Laverne Cox, best known forOrange is the New Black.Thank you @Alyssa_Milano. This brought tears to my eyes. It means so much to have our cis feminist allies  stand up for us. Folks can stand with trans folks by amplifying #YesOn3 to defend trans rights in Massachusetts and encouraging MA to #VoteYesOn3 https://t.co/OaVWmiObgl— Laverne Cox (@Lavernecox) October 28, 2018And the Human Rights Campaign."The civil rights of our transgender & non-binary citizens in Massachusetts are at stake." Bay Staters: Vote #YesOn3 to protect transgender equality this election. #TransLawMA #MAPoli https://t.co/TW1dR2UAcy— Human Rights Campaign (@HRC) November 1, 2018And the American Civil Liberties Union.At 12 PM, our executive director Carol Rose will be on @BosPublicRadio for an #ElectionDay conversation about #YesOn3 to uphold transgender rights and the impact of this year's district attorney elections. https://t.co/EbMvXUAKED— ACLU  Massachusetts (@ACLU_Mass) November 6, 2018For many, the issue is deeply personal.	Liberal
The campaign of President Donald Trump announced Sunday on their website that Fox News personality Sean Hannity would appear as a guest at Trump’s Monday, November 5, Make America Great Again rally in Missouri. The announcement raised concerns over the separation between the press and government.Fox News already faced harsh criticism for their coverage of the Trump administration as well as accusations of being a government run propaganda network. However Fox News quickly responded to the Trump campaign announcement, stating they were unsure how the Trump campaign got that impression, but it was false.According to Fox News, in a statement made in advance of Monday night’s rally, Sean Hannity would merely broadcast an episode of his Fox News program from the Make America Great Again rally location before it began, then attend as an unbiased press observer. Fox insisted Hannity would not appear on stage.Hannity himself took to Twitter to dispel the rumors. On Monday night, he tweeted:“In spite of reports, I will be doing a live show from Cape Girardeau and interviewing President Trump before the rally. To be clear, I will not be on stage campaigning with the President. I am covering final rally for my show. Something I have done in every election in the past.”In spite of reports, I will be doing a live show from Cape Girardeau and interviewing President Trump before the rally. To be clear, I will not be on stage campaigning with the President. I am covering final rally for my show. Something I have done in every election in the past. Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) November 5, 2018However Monday night at the Make America Great Again rally saw something different occur.Sean Hannity, ladies and gentlemen https://t.co/pEKKPJL90G pic.twitter.com/YeIXgJW069 Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) November 6, 2018In an extraordinary scene, Fox News Channel personality Sean Hannity appears on stage at Trump rally after cable news network said he would not be part of the event, @dbauder reports. https://t.co/2KAr45ih3s The Associated Press (@AP) November 6, 2018The President had two Fox News personalities come on stage and address the crowd: Sean Hannity and Jeanine Pirro. Trump introduced them after stating:“Theyre very special; theyve done an incredible job for us. Theyve been with us from the beginning.”Both Hannity and Pirro had effusive praise for the President, further reinforcing media watchdog criticisms over Fox News’ bias.Hannity first hugged Trump then pointed to the press area at the back of the arena and stated:“By the way, all those people in the back are fake news.”Pirro bowed to the President when she came onto the stage.Watch the footage here.Media watchdog organization Media Matters for America president Angelo Carusone stated:“Either Fox News lied all day about their direct collaboration with the Trump campaign, or the network simply doesnt have any control over Sean Hannity.”“This is a problem. Its dangerous for democracy and a threat to a free press.”Others called out the hypocrisy of Fox and Hannity.	Liberal
President Donald Trump claimed that Democrats want to “obliterate” the Affordable Care Act (otherwise known as Obamacare) during a freewheeling appearance last night.“If the Democrats gain power on Tuesday, one of their very first projects will be a socialist takeover of American health care,” the president said. “You know what’s happening, and your taxes are going to triple, maybe quadruple. You’re not going to be happy, I know you well.”He declared:“The Democrat plan would obliterate Obamacare.”He then seemed to catch his own cognitive dissonance:“…which is good, but leave the bad parts behind.”Watch the clip below:Here we are, Folks.  Trump: "The Democrat plan would obliterate Obamacare." pic.twitter.com/tgWSjIoZxf— Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) November 6, 2018Many pointed out that the presidentand the Republican Partytried to repeal Obamacare.Obamacare is so popular, Trump is pretending he didn't try to repeal it. https://t.co/U12otSJRYt— Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) November 6, 2018Donald Trump sounds like he learned about Obamacare from Donald Trump. https://t.co/dPFacXRCfm— LOLGOP (@LOLGOP) November 6, 2018The Democrat plan would obliterate Obamacare.-2 years later after his election, Trumps closing argument as he is overwhelmed by the popularity of the law he believed he would so easily defeat https://t.co/VgWsINCPF0— Andy Slavitt (@ASlavitt) November 6, 2018Is it surreal to see Trump now defend Obamacare? To see his simple minded supporters lap it up? Or just scary to think these idiots voted? The @GOP has long term memory loss. https://t.co/La5FjZBR0Y— Father Bradford (@BradfordBlaser) November 6, 2018Republicans voted dozens of times to obliterate Obamacare. Trump promised hundreds of times to repeal Obamacare. He now says Dems (who passed it without a single Republican vote) will obliterate it. Hes playing his voters for fools. Will they play along? https://t.co/zjQuffmx9s— Derek Cressman (@DerekCressman) November 6, 2018The history of the Republican opposition to the Affordable Care Act is long and storied, so we’ll weigh in on just a few key moments starting from before the president took office.Republican leaders had planned to gut the Affordable Care Act even before Trump took office. In fact, Mike Pence, then the Vice President-elect, during a private meeting in January 2017, said that Trump planned to take action against Obamacare on his first day in office. Specifically, Trump planned to use executive orders aimed at protecting the insurance marketplace from the blowback of an aggressive repeal. Republicans had vowed to repeal the ACA as soon as possible, with the understanding that pushing a bill through the Senate could take weeks, if not longer.In the spring of 2017,American hospitals and the AARP announced their opposition to the GOP repeal and replace bill for Obamacare.TheAmerican Hospital Association(AHA) announced it would oppose theAmerican Health Care Act. In doing so, AHA became the first health industry group to voice its opposition to the legislation.In a letter to House Republicans, Richard Pollack, AHAs president and CEO,askedCongress to protect our patients, and find ways to maintain coverage for as many Americans as possible.We look forward to continuing to work with the Congress and the Administration on [Affordable Care Act] ACA reform, but we cannot support The American Health Care Act in its current form.Pollack also came out against a provision of the legislationthat would strike funding for states to expand Medicaid beyond 2019. Hospitals, he continued, would be adversely affected by elements of the measure that give relief to other industries largely through eliminating taxes imposed by Obamacare yet offer no help for them. For example, items like the overall tax on healthcare plans have been removed entirely, but a reduction in Medicare payment levels for hospital services remains in place.If coverage is not maintained at the current level, those resources need to be returned to hospitals and health systems in order to provide services to what will likely be an increased number of uninsured Americans, Pollack said.AARP(formerly the American Association for Retired Persons) cited a provision which would allow insurers to raise premiums for older Americans to rates five times higher than they charge younger workers provided state regulations allow it. Obamacare had successfully capped this ratio, known as the age rating, at 3 to 1.Older Americans need affordable health care services and prescriptions,AARP Executive Vice President Nancy LeaMondsaidin a statement. This plan goes in the opposite direction, increasing insurance premiums for older Americans and not doing anything to lower drug costs.The organization, which has 38 million members age 50 or older, also opposes the measures restructuring of Medicaid, which, its members argue, might force states to make cuts that hurt seniors, many of whom rely on Medicaid for nursing home care and other necessary health services. The legislation would also roll back Obamacares expansion of the program, which made it available to millions of low-income adults, many of them seniors, who did not have health insurance before.	Liberal
MSNBC on Monday accidentally aired a graphic showing the results of the race for governor of Florida, and the internet wants to know what exactly happened.DuringAll In with Chris Hayes, the network showed the results of the contest between Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum (D) and former Congressman Ron DeSantis (R) ahead of Tuesday’s election.In the image, Gillum wasshown beating DeSantis with 49.4 percent of the vote to DeSantis’s 48.8 percent. That 0.6 percent edge was accompanied by projected vote totals – Gillum’s 3,343,634 to DeSantis’s 3,297,970 – with 99 percent of precincts reporting.Living in the age of constant drones about “fake news” and perceived network bias means swaths of people have questions.Wait, how does @MSNBC and @chrislhayes already have Florida results?  #TheIlluminatiIsReal pic.twitter.com/taomeTVvzN— Jonathan Chavez (@jschavez) November 6, 2018@dhjr @chrislhayes @allinwithchris @MSNBC Interesting… I thought Florida voted Tuesday not today .. weird huh? What was this about??  pic.twitter.com/QvLozXvkhF— Scott Sheehan (@sheehansco) November 6, 2018Id in error you mean purposely placed on national tv then yes its a huge error— Ben Stanton (@BenStanton77) November 6, 2018Wishful thinking?Just noticed the "99% in" at the top right— Against All Odds (@MikeJBarnes) November 6, 2018Foul play?@msnbc Got caught posting their phony results too early.. The people of Florida need to see this first thing this morning so they know that Democrats are still trying as hard as ever to rig elections around the country— karma (@thetypeofguy69) November 6, 2018Democrats which the main stream media is a part of, can't win without cheating .— Larry (@Lbs122955) November 6, 2018A discourage tactic, no accident. Dirty move to try keeping Republican voters from going to vote by having them think it's useless to go.— William Silva (@Wills149) November 6, 2018Not so fast.Republicans dont watch MSNBC anyway, what difference will it make?  But for Republican pundits crying about it, surely no more than a few hundred Republicans in the entire state of Florida probably saw it.— Fascist Insect (@JeffGuidry3) November 6, 2018Some people are convinced MSNBC is trying to rig the midterms.Id in error you mean purposely placed on national tv then yes its a huge error— Ben Stanton (@BenStanton77) November 6, 2018They just jinxed it. — Patrick Clancey (@CrankeyMonkey) November 6, 2018No, MSNBC isn’t trying to predict the future, and as far as we can tell, the simulation isn’t glitching.	Liberal
U.S. District Judge Peter Messitte ruled thata landmark lawsuit against President Donald Trump can proceed. The lawsuit,filed by the attorneys general of Maryland and Washington, D.C., accuses the president of violating the emoluments clause of the Constitution, which bars U.S. officials, elected or appointed, from accepting gifts or payments from foreign entities without receiving congressional approval.Although the Justice Department argued that the lawsuit should be dismissed becauseit would be too much of a distraction for Trump while he runs the country, Messite noted that the president himself appears to have hadlittle reluctance to pursue personal litigationdespite the supposed distractions it imposes upon his office.He cited one of the president’s tweets, issued in August, in which he challenged former CIA Director John Brennanone of his more prominent criticsto sue him.I hope John Brennan, the worst CIA Director in our countrys history, brings a lawsuit. It will then be very easy to get all of his records, texts, emails and documents to show not only the poor job he did, but how he was involved with the Mueller Rigged Witch Hunt. He wont sue!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 20, 2018He also pointed out that Trump has had no qualms about going to court over issues related to the publication of tell-all books by reporter Michael Wolff and adult film actress Stormy Daniels, or his sparring with former White House strategist Steve Bannon:It bears noting that the President himself appears to have had little reluctance to pursue personal litigation despite the supposed distractions it imposes upon his office. See, e.g., Order, Cohen v. United States, No. 18-3161 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 13, 2018) (granting the Presidents motion to intervene in litigation); see also, e.g., Michael D. Shear & Eileen Sullivan, Trump and Giuliani Taunt Brennan About Filing a Lawsuit, N.Y. Times, Aug. 20, 2018 (President inviting lawsuit against himself), https://nyti.ms/2Mwj3De; Letter from Charles H. Harder to Steve Rubin & Michael Wolff (Jan. 4, 2018) (providing notice of potential legal action in connection with allegedly defamatory statements made Case 8:17-cv-01596-PJM Document 135 Filed 11/02/18 Page 29 of 31 -30- in upcoming publication), goo.gl/hwVLTZ; Steve Holland & Doina Chiacu, Trump targets book, threatens ex-ally Bannon with legal action, Reuters (Jan. 3, 2018) (reporting on cease-and-desist letter sent to Stephen K. Bannon and stating that President Trumps attorney Charles Harder told Reuters that legal action is imminent against Bannon), https://reut.rs/2NhQCJG; Sarah Fitzpatrick & Tracy Connor, Trump tries to move Stormy Daniels lawsuit to federal court, claims she owes him $20 million, NBC News, March 16, 2018 (Presidents lawyer, with the consent of the President, files a notice of removal in lawsuit by Stephanie Clifford), https://goo.gl/E5zo9N.Messite adds that “the most the President can say is that if he is required to respond to civil discovery, he would be ill-served”:But as Plaintiffs point out, most of what they seek is discovery from third parties, e.g., the Trump International Hotel, which would seem unlikely to impose any meaningful burden on the President individually. See Report of Rule 26(f) Planning Meeting (Sept. 14, Case 8:17-cv-01596-PJM Document 135 Filed 11/02/18 Page 28 of 31 -29- 2018), ECF No. 132. And, of course, mere injuries, however substantial, in terms of money, time, and energy necessarily expended in the absence of a stay, are not enough. Long v. Robinson, 432 F.2d 977, 980 (4th Cir. 1970) (internal quotation omitted). The Presidents argument that he would be distracted would seem to apply to any litigant who has been sued. Yet Presidents have unquestionably responded to court orders, as in this case, and have also had extensive interactions with the court system.The suit contends that Trump is profiting fromhis Trump International Hotel in D.C. and that foreign leaders have leveraged bookings and parties at the space to curry favor with the president. Trumps apparent receipt of benefits from at least some foreign and state governments … suggest that he hasreceived emoluments in violation of the Constitution, Messite wrote, noting that foreign governments have have explicitly stated that they are patronizing the Trump International Hotel precisely because the President, in effect, owns it.”Moreover, Messite wrote,it appears likely in some cases that payments to his hotel are beingmade with an expectation of favorable treatmentby the President in matters of foreign policy.The news is considered a blow to the president, who is counting on Republicans to maintain their majority in today’s midterm elections.#BREAKING: Judge blocks Pres. Trumps attempt to appeal and stop our #emoluments case. Our case is still moving forward and we will continue to work to stop Pres. Trump from violating the Constitution and profiting from the presidency. pic.twitter.com/2m3TLZi1dm— AG Karl A. Racine (@AGKarlRacine) November 2, 2018BREAKING:  the judge in DC/MD #emoluments case just denied the President's motions for leave to appeal & to stay discovery. Another big win for @BrianFrosh & @AGKarlRacine & co-counsel including we at @CREWcrew, @deepakguptalaw & @CohenMilstein. Discovery schedule due in 20 days! pic.twitter.com/9XiSEeFIYN— Norm Eisen (@NormEisen) November 2, 2018The judge in the emoluments clause case cited this tweet from @realDonaldTrump to reject Trump's argument that any lawsuit would impose undue burdens on the presidency. In this tweet, Trump actually invited a lawsuit from one of his enemies! He's got time, it seems. https://t.co/RTQbWUhahr— David Fahrenthold (@Fahrenthold) November 2, 2018	Liberal
A little over a week after a tragic shooting massacre at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pennsylvania, the Supreme Court of the United States upheld a lower court decision by the San Francisco 9th Circuit to restrict the concealed carry of handguns.This is the second time in two years that the court has declined to step into the fray regarding concealed carry laws, but the first time it has done so with the controversial new Justice Brett Kavanaugh, who frequently ruled in favor of far-reaching gun rights during his time on the United States Court of Appeals.Now buttressed by a solid Republican majority, it’s likely gun rights activists were hoping for a different outcome, rather than the same stance with a similar case last year. Democrats can be grateful that the decision was upheld, rather than thrust into the national stage as the first major case of the latest Supreme Court.And grateful they were.BREAKING:  The Supreme Court just rejected a request to challenge California's laws which ban most people from carrying guns outside of their home without a specially requested and granted permit.This is the Supreme Court with 2 Trump Appointees!Another WIN for America!— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) November 5, 2018A good sign so far from this court. We do not need any legislation from the bench.— BWs Macas (@nomaya_e) November 5, 2018Wow! Being a California resident and voter, I'm grateful for this outcome. A win for California and the USA. States rights are supposedly considered inviolate by conservatives…when it serves their purposes. They lost a big one here with national implications going forward.— Greg Starr (@mansome1) November 5, 2018Some knew that the San Francisco court’s ruling already made sense.1. Federalism works and is.2. The State of CA has PLENARY POWER under the 10th Amendment to REGULATE its own Health and Morals.Both these justify the Supreme Court's refusal to hear the case.— Secret t (@Secret____t) November 5, 2018There's no right to conceal carry in public, that is a privilege which can be regulated due to public safety. #GunSense #2a— VOTE NOVEMBER 6 (@JHunter65284456) November 5, 2018maybe they read that well regulated part of the 2nd amendment.— bob hawkins (@poozwah) November 5, 2018While the Supreme Court ruled in 2008 (and nationally in 2010) that the ownership of a firearm for self-defense in one’s residence is a constitutional right, current California law prohibits concealed carry in public without a permit from a local sheriff, who must determine good cause for issuing it.For the California couple attempting to bring the case to the court, one sheriff denied their request. In the suit, they claimed that the concealed carry permit was an undue burden and that the sheriff had violated their 14th Amendment rights.Not everyone was happy with the court’s decision.	Liberal
Will 2020 be the year a woman finally makes it to the Oval Office? An exclusive new poll shows President Donald Trump losing in a landslide in 2020 to an array of women considered likely contenders for the nation’s highest office.The poll, conducted by Survey Monkey, shows Trump losing the 2020election – in landslides – to seven potential women candidates.Axios aired the poll results Sunday night on HBO.Some of the women have never held elected office.Former First Lady Michelle Obama, though she has explicitlysaid she is not running, holds a whopping 13-point edge – 55 to 42 percent – over Trump in a hypothetical matchup. Additionally, Obama’s favorability is 31 points higher than Trump’s.Oprah Winfrey, who is hitting the campaign stump for Democrats ahead of Tuesday’s midterms, bests Trump 53 to 41 percent. In terms of who is more favorable, those surveyed chose Winfrey by 24 percent.Others, however, are currently in power. And if they run, it could be curtains for the 45th president.Senators Kamala Harris (D-CA) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) hold 10 and nine-point leads over Trump, respectively. They also enjoy higher favorability ratings than Trump, with seven and eight point advantages, respectively.New York’s Kirsten Gillibrand, the successor to Hillary Clinton, edges out Trump by six points. Her favorability is tied with Trump.Even Hillary Clinton, whose 2016 loss still stings liberals, would defeat the incumbent president 50-45 percent, according to the survey. Clinton’s favorability, however, is 25 points less than Trump’s the poll indicates. Clinton has said she has no intention of running, however the door remains open. Last week she said she’d “like to be president” and would address the possibility of a third White House bid after the midterms.Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) would beat Trump by two points, 49-47 percent, the poll says, but her favorable ratings are 16 points lower than Trump’s.On Twitter, people are cautiously optimistic about 2020, given what happened in 2016.The first three are women of color. Once he sees this, we can just sit back and wait for the racist insults to fly.— Jess Phoenix  (@jessphoenix2018) November 5, 2018Don't be so sure. Clinton lost in 2016. And in 2020 who knows how the GOP will suppress minority voters. Looks at what's happening now in Georgia and North Dakota for example.— Francois X (@PeoplevsDonald) November 5, 2018I'll be slow to get my hopes up again. Hillary outpolled him too. And the popular vote was in line with most polls, but she lost. Americans are far more racist and just generally bad people than most of us want to think.— Traveller Sorta (@semifluent) November 5, 2018If we lose this one in two days I have doubts we ever have real elections again— Mike (@12MBerry) November 5, 2018would lose *the popular vote*— James Schapiro (@JSchapiro_SBR) November 5, 2018Dont listen to polls. VOTE— OffSZN (@A8A83T) November 5, 2018Some, though, are excited over the prospectof Trump getting trounced by a woman.	Liberal
On Monday, the day before the 2018 midterms, President Donald Trump took to his Twitter account to float a favorite conspiracy theory. Back in the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump claimed voter fraud accounted for all of his losses in the primaries and in losing the popular vote to Hillary Clinton by about 3 million votes.The President appointed a commission after he took office to look into voter fraud. But Trump’s group disbanded after months of finding no evidence to support the President’s claims.One commission member went public with complaints of a tainted and biased process desperate to find anything to support Trump’s conspiracy theory that he won the popular vote.Now the President is warning voters that “Law Enforcement” will be “watching closely” on Tuesday for “ILLEGAL VOTING.” Trump tweeted:“Law Enforcement has been strongly notified to watch closely for any ILLEGAL VOTING which may take place in Tuesdays Election (or Early Voting). Anyone caught will be subject to the Maximum Criminal Penalties allowed by law. Thank you!”Law Enforcement has been strongly notified to watch closely for any ILLEGAL VOTING which may take place in Tuesdays Election (or Early Voting). Anyone caught will be subject to the Maximum Criminal Penalties allowed by law. Thank you! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 5, 2018Social media failed to feel reassured that Trump alerted law enforcement. Many saw the tweet as an attempt at voter suppression through intimidation.Sending “law enforcement” to the polls could constitute voter intimidation, which is unconstitutional, but you know that, right? Unless you meant “poll watchers.” How many of your supporters voted early and will vote again at the polls? Will they be “caught?” #ElectionDay surfkitty ???????? (@surfkitty) November 5, 2018https://t.co/PczkEp8UKK vote november 6th ???? (@BelichickThis) November 5, 2018WE NEED EVERY ONE OF YOU ! Republicans Cheat ! ?? DON’T LET THEM WIN?????Problem Voting? CALL? 866 Our Vote Or SEE @866OurVoteDiscuss all things Voting FOLLOW @LawyersComm ?? #ElectionProtection #beavoter #voteblue #votedem #bluewave #Democracy #Equality #America pic.twitter.com/zYMQUE5dUd ?? ?? Lola ???? (@Lola15363615) November 5, 2018This is what voter suppression looks like spooky mike styczen ???? (@mstyczen) November 5, 2018Have them watch out for voter suppression, as well. There are very few incidents of illegal voting. The problem is hacking and ‘meddling’ and cyber warfare in our elections. #LiesLiesLies #VoteBlueToSaveAmerica #GOPVotingBlue ????Lynn Buzzard Brix???? (@lmbuzzard) November 5, 2018And WE will be watching for YOUR VOTER SUPPRESSION TACTICS. #THISISAMERICA not mini- Russia. Expresso ~ (@Express31548722) November 5, 2018The United States, the so-called leaders of the free world, the bastion of democracy has a President threatening people about to exercise their right to vote. He should hail this day to have your say but instead he stoops to yet another low. Darren (@plumrid) November 5, 2018NEVER LET ANYONE, INCLUDING OUR PRESIDENT, INTIMIDATE YOU OUT OF VOTING. Express your right to vote!!!!! Laurie Hicks (@Laurie_Kikora) November 5, 2018US CODE TITLE 18: Crimes & Criminal Procedure.Section 594. Intimidation of Voters (abridged)Whoever attempts to intimidate, threaten, or coerce, any other person for the purpose of interfering with the right of such other person to #vote shall be fined or imprisoned, or both. Kim G. (@KMG_VA) November 5, 2018Others pointed out some issues with the GOP and voting. Or President Trump and illegal activities.Can we start with the ILLEGAL VOTE SUPPRESSION FROM @GOP? You and your GOP scum will pay for your crimes! #KARMAhttps://t.co/yOMr3D33Nf CA Vote#YesOn12 ?????????????? (@LovUniverse) November 5, 2018Does this go for crooked politicians who try to break the law when it comes to voting? If so make sure your pal @BrianKempGA sees this. He should be top of the list for criminal activities regarding the voting process. ????roseymelhill???? (@roseymelhill) November 5, 2018You’re supposed to take your job seriously. You’re supposed to be the President of the entire country. You’re supposed to avoid misinforming the public and pitting Americans against each other. You’re supposed to think about more than yourself. John Sipher (@john_sipher) November 5, 2018Is that tweet for Obama? I think it’s too late for that. He and many others sold us out. Sophia VII ???? (@susana4559) November 5, 2018No. It’s for the man who stood next to Putin and sided with him over us. The man who wages a treasonous war on the govt to undermine a counter-intel investigation into Russia attacking an election. The man who’s sought to divide America and weaken ties with our allies. ????WRAPPED IN THE FLAG???? (@ChineseNavy) November 5, 2018And sides with a murderous Saudi regime over military contracts that may or may not come into fruition. kim (@shenanigrinsart) November 5, 2018https://t.co/hnj52OhWIt Vote Nov. 6th (@upuouo) November 5, 2018Mr Trump You destroyed the Republican party’s chances to hold the House Your next six months will be a nightmare because of the Mueller investigations and the House hearings. You will be impeached Now your stupid racism may cost GOP the Senate too Sleep tightly, Moron-In-Chief Tomi Ahonen (@tomiahonen) November 5, 2018pic.twitter.com/cpOapRfV8K S.A. Belec (@EastCoastDaisy) November 5, 2018	Liberal
The Progressive Campaign Change Committee launched an ad on Saturday targeting Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) with President Donald Trump’s criticisms of the incumbent Republican.The 30-second“Fire Lyin’ Ted Cruz” ad spot features voiceovers of then-candidate Trumpexcoriating primary rival Cruz during the 2016election cycle, including Trump’s famous nickname for Cruz, “Lyin’ Ted.”“I’m Donald Trump and I must tell you something about Ted Cruz,” the ad begins. “I have never ever ever met a person that lies more than Ted Cruz.”Juxtaposed over images of Cruz, Trump is heard calling the Senator “one of the great liars of all time” and “Lyin’ Ted, Lyin’ Ted.”Cruz “holds the Bible high and then he lies, he lies. I think it’s very inappropriate,” Trump said at a CNN town hall.“Ted Cruz… he’s taken so much money from so many different people,” the ad continues, “I mean, he’s totally controlled.”Cruz is a “nasty guy,” according to Trump in 2016. “Nobody likes him, nobody in Congress likes him.”The ad concludes with Trump assailing Cruz for not being a “truthful person,” and that “Cruz is the most dishonest person I’ve ever met in politics.”Watch the ad below:Cruz is fighting to keep his seat against Democratic Congressman Beto O’Rourke, a progressive that has surged in the polls and become a rising star in the Democratic Party.Actor Mark Ruffalo wrote on Twitter that “even a broken clock is right twice a day,” referring to Trump.Even a broken clock is right twice a day  https://t.co/RFDWGJxjsD— Mark Ruffalo (@MarkRuffalo) November 5, 2018Trump is not a clock; he's the 1878 Sharecropper's Almanac.— Not too Hurt or Scared to VOTE (@LinuxandYarn) November 5, 2018Eh…just toss out the broken clock and get a new one that actually works.  — LaRhonda Banner (@D76developer) November 5, 2018For his part, Cruz has lashed out at Trump in the past.That clip and this clip make wonderful bookends. https://t.co/umlEMPCBLy— John Stinchcomb (@John_Stinchcomb) November 5, 2018Others on social media think it’s funny that Cruz just “lies there at takes it” from Trump. Sad!And Cruz just lays there and takes it lol— Pete (@pmtz733) November 5, 2018I have never cared for the guy had always reminded me of a good old boy.— Dianna Elizalde (@elidianna) November 5, 2018Cruz destroyed himself, he a first class patsy looking like a deer glaring into a set of headlights.— Rafiq Mustafaa (@RafiqMustafaa) November 5, 2018Trump also blasted Cruz on Twitter during the 2016 primaries; in fact, in the two years leading up to the 2016 election, Trump tweet-trashed Cruz121 times.	Liberal
Facebook on Monday removed a racist campaign ad that had originally been peddled by President Donald Trump late last week.The ad, clearly designed to stoke fear, shows convicted cop killer and undocumented immigrant Luis Bracamontes bragging about murdering two police officers.The video is extremely transparent in its effort to paint immigrants and particularly the “caravan” of refugees soldiering through Mexico, as a violent invasion and threat to American sovereignty.“This ad violates Facebook’s advertising policy against sensational content so we are rejecting it. While the video is allowed to be posted on Facebook, it cannot receive paid distribution,” Facebook said in a statement Monday afternoon.A spokesman for Facebook said the ad failed to meet the standards of their advertising policies.“We have Community Standards that outline what is and isn’t allowed on Facebook,” the spokesperson said. “However, when it comes to ads on Facebook, we have a higher set of standards for what can run in an ad. Our Advertising Policies are more restrictive because they take paid distribution.”The individual alsoadmitted the ad had been run in error because it didn’t violate the site’s Community Standards.“Under our Community Standards,” the person added, “this video is allowed to be posted on Facebook.”Many people think Facebook’s move didn’t come soon enough, given the midterm elections aretomorrow.An ad too racist for Facebook has to be pretty racist— Molly JongFast (@MollyJongFast) November 5, 2018The damage is already done. "Scream the lies and whisper the truth."— Senator Maisel (@ericgoesboating) November 5, 2018Anyone asking why @NBC @FoxNews @facebook et al said yes in the first place?  What changed?— B Double E (@ellavsky) November 5, 2018oh, on the eve of the election? good job, facebook. — erica merry grittymas!!sharpe (@ef_sharpe) November 5, 2018Suddenly a day before the election Fox, NBC and Facebook pull the ad guaranteeing the most possible free exposure for the next 24 hours.— Moderation in Excess (@ModerationInXS) November 5, 2018Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign chairman Brad Parscale responded to Facebook’s decision by doubling down on the administration’s racist admonishment of asylum-seekers from Central America.So, @NBCNews @CNN @facebook have chosen to stand with those ILLEGALLY IN THIS COUNTRY. Instead of standing with LEGAL IMMIGRANTS and those that follow our laws. The #FakeNewsMedia and #PaloAltoMafia are trying to control what you see and how you think. STOP THE CARAVAN!— Brad Parscale (@parscale) November 5, 2018He probably shouldn’t have done that.You can add Fox News and Fox Business to your tweet… but you probably won't because narrative.— P Resists (@4everNeverTrump) November 5, 2018Also, "Palo Alto Mafia"?Yes, because a tech company determining whether content complies with its terms of service is *exactly* like an international criminal conspiracy involving in assassinations, drug-running, money laundering and other illicit activities.— P Resists (@4everNeverTrump) November 5, 2018Dude, Facebook was, like, your whole deal.Get f***ed, jerkoff!— The Hoarse Whisperer (@HoarseWisperer) November 5, 2018Fox News pulled it too. Statement came out 20 minutes before your tweet.— Yossi Gestetner (@YossiGestetner) November 5, 2018I mean, how bad do you have to be for Fox News to think you've gone too far?— Daniel Pucca (@Daniel_Pucca) November 5, 2018Also deeming your ad overtly racist, that liberal bastion *checks notes* Fox News. https://t.co/t6RvDXQj2t— Alt. U.S. Press Sec. (@AltUSPressSec) November 5, 2018As Parscale noted in his tweet, Facebook is not alone in its rebuke of the president’s race-baiting.	Liberal
Georgia voters received an incredibly racist and antisemitic robocall over the weekend from a white supremacist group poorly imitating Oprah Winfrey and going after Democratic candidate for governor Stacey Abrams.Winfrey spent the latter part of last week campaigning for Abrams, who if elected would become the nation’s first black female governor.The disturbing call opens with a voice pretending to be “the magical negro Oprah Winfrey” endorsing her “fellow negress” Abrams for governor before attacking “the Jews.”This is the magical negro, Oprah Winfrey, asking you to make my fellow negress, Stacey Abrams, the governor of Georgia, the message says. Years ago the Jews who own the American media saw something in me  the ability to trick dumb white women into thinking I was like them. And to do, read and think what I told them to.”I see that same potential in Stacey Abrams, call continues. Where others see a poor mans Aunt Jemima, I see someone white women can be tricked into voting for  especially the fat ones.The message went on to promise a new car to people who vote for Abrams, mimicking Winfrey’s talk show giveaways.“And so I promise that every single person who votes for Stacey Abrams, you’re going to get a new car!” the call says. “So you get a car! And you get a car! And you get a car! And you get a car! Everybody gets a car!”The call concludes with a death wish for white racists.And as far as the whites that are in the way, dont worry about them,” it says. “Like I said in that famous interview in 2013, white racists just have to die.”Listen to the call below:https://www.facebook.com/100012148204907/videos/619266061821662/The call was produced and distributed by Road to Power, a hate group based in Idaho that has targeted other black candidates, including Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum, the Democrat hoping to become Florida’s first black governor.Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp, the Republican candidate for governor, fiercely condemned the robocall, calling it “absolutely disgusting.”I stand against any person or organization that peddles this type of unbridled hate and unapologetic bigotry, Kemp said in a statement on Friday. These vile efforts to degrade and disparage others are contrary to the highest ideals of our state and country. We unequivocally condemn this group and their horrible actions.Abigail Collazo, directorof strategic communications for the Abrams campaign, said in a statement Saturday morning that the “vile, poisonous thinking” which inspired the ad can be traced to the rhetoric coming from President Donald Trump.Over the last few weeks weve seen increasing desperation from many dark corners trying to steal the election, cheat, lie, and prey on peoples fears rather than having the respect to listen to voters and speak to their hopes, Collazo said. These automated calls are being sent into homes just days before President Trump arrives, reminding voters exactly who is promoting a political climate that celebrates this kind of vile, poisonous thinking.Twitter users also slammed the call.This racist right-wing robocall from Georgia imitating Oprah to smear Stacey Abrams is abhorrent. Disgraceful that in 2018 conservative America is still using the bigoted strategies of the George Wallaces and Lee Atwaters. pic.twitter.com/Ml0ZdCh5qg— Adam Best (@adamcbest) November 3, 2018To the few remaining Republicans…these are the people who are on your team. Think about that when youre voting on Tuesday.— Greg Shugar (@GregShugar) November 3, 2018Disgusting. And when I looked up the one behind this, I came across him doing similar robocall last spring against Sen Feinstein. Are there no hate speech crimes he can be charge with? These creeps are encouraged by Trump's rhetoric.— Kathryn Mathias (@KathrynMathias1) November 3, 2018I believe that is the same one that was behind the racist robocalls, just last month in florida, against Andrew Gillum. #BringItHome— Dawn Turner (@lovemylilfarm) November 3, 2018Some, however, were not surprised that such a call was created and distributed.Not surprised. The woman whom Katy Tur interviewed this morning said she didn't know what Oprah was doing in Georgia when there is so much trouble in Chicago. She said Oprah should "go back to Chicago where she's from."Oprah was born in Kosciusko, Mississippi.— LaynaRose (@Layna2802) November 3, 2018As a long time resident of Georgia, I'm not surprised at the ridiculous vileness of this at all. Sigh . . . The DECENT people of Georgia will respond to this racist garbage with a big yawn, and use our voices and our votes to keep moving forward.#VoteBlue#StaceyAbramsForGA— JacksonSugarNovels (@crazyrednovels) November 3, 2018Sad to hear it is that common – it is so striking to me.Glad that there are sane folks that will be voting Tuesday to keep this kind of bigotry in check!— Sam Jackson (@Sam_Jack8201) November 3, 2018Just realize that there are people who are voting for Kemp not in spite of this racism, but because of it. The difference is if Abrams wins, she will govern all people of Georgia, whereas Kemp wont give a hoot about POC, the poor, or health care. Vote blue Georgia – it matters.— RotaRooter (@MrsRota1) November 3, 2018Condemnation of the message was nearly universal.	Liberal
Barbados native Rihanna joined a growing list of musical artists telling President Donald Trump to stop playing their music at his Make America Great Again rallies. The move came after journalist Philip Rucker posted a tweet about Trump’s Tennessee rally on Sunday.Rucker took to Twitter and said:“Its been said a million times, but heres a million and one  Trumps rallies are unlike anything else in politics. Currently, Rihannas Dont Stop the Music is blaring in Chattanooga as aides toss free Trump T-shirts into the crowd, like a ball game. Everyones loving it.”Its been said a million times, but heres a million and one  Trumps rallies are unlike anything else in politics. Currently, Rihannas Dont Stop the Music is blaring in Chattanooga as aides toss free Trump T-shirts into the crowd, like a ball game. Everyones loving it. Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) November 4, 2018Rihanna retweeted Rucker’s message with the caption:“Not for much longer…me nor my people would ever be at or around one of those tragic rallies, so thanks for the heads up philip!”Not for much longer…me nor my people would ever be at or around one of those tragic rallies, so thanks for the heads up philip! https://t.co/dRgRi06GrJ Rihanna (@rihanna) November 5, 2018Trump and his rallies received cease and desist letters from Steven Tyler of Aerosmith and requests he remove their music from his rallies from Adele, Axl Rose, Queen, Pharrell Williams, Neil Young and the Rolling Stones to name just a few.The Barbados singer’s response to learning Trump’s rally included her song “Dont Stop the Music” to pump up the waiting crowd came as no surprise to anyone who follows her. Rihanna vocally and publicly opposed the President and his policies on several occasions previously.Rihanna called Trump an “immoral pig” over his Muslim travel ban. She also heavily criticized his administration’s poor handling of the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico.People online applauded the singer’s stance on the use of her music to excite the President’s fans at one of his “tragic rallies.”	Liberal
Ed Henry, the chief national correspondent for Fox News, fact-checked weekend ‘Fox & Friends’ host Pete Hegseth on Saturday after Hegseth claimed thatformer PresidentBarack Obama should not be given credit for the healthy economy.Hegseth began:Democrats want to talk about health care. They dont want to talk about immigration. They cant talk about the economy. I mean Barack Obama is trying to say he rebuilt the economy.At which point Henry chimed in:Youve read the numbers, Im sure. Barack Obama created more jobs in his final 21 months than President [Donald] Trump has created in his first 21. Im not saying this President inherited it, but would you acknowledge that he was handed a better economy than Barack Obama got?You can watch it below:The Great moment a Fox News Host Exposes Lies About Obama by another Fox News HostFox news host Ed Henry:  Barack Obama created more jobs in his final 21 months than President Trump has created in his first 21THIS IS JUST AWESOME pic.twitter.com/65MbyMqNJc— PoliticsVideoChannel (@politvidchannel) November 4, 2018People were happy to see such a spot on instant fact-check on Fox News:@edhenry good job reminding, or most likely informing & enlightening your co-host Pete Hegseth; to his dismay, of the facts of the economy & job creation under the current & previous administration. Finally refreshing to hear, while channel surfing & coming upon your news outlet.— Patrick Fontaine (@pjfontaine0123) November 5, 2018At last a presenter on FOX news with some decency not to lie— Nasreen Davidson (@nasdavidson) November 4, 2018Wow.  A foxer telling the truth?— @carolyn (@lstl5) November 4, 2018Despite being shut down, however, Hegseth wouldn’t let it go.Heres what Ill acknowledge,” Hegseth responded. “Four million new jobs, over four million less people on food stamps. To me, that is a reflection of a President that puts business and the private sector ahead of government assistance and bailouts.He was handed a good economy and made it better,” Henry said.Later, during a discussion with Fox Business host Steve Varney, Henry suggested that Hegseth gets “triggered” whenever he hears anything positive about Obama’s economy.When Barack Obama came to office, he was losing 600, 700 thousand jobs a month. We were in financial free-fall, correct? By the end of his administration, in his final 21 months, he created more jobs than President Trump has created in his first 21 months,” he said.Are you saying he started this? said co-host Katie Pavlich.President Trump has done a great job on the economy. Cutting taxes, regulations, its roaring. Youre absolutely right, Henry said. All Im saying it wasnt the table set by Barack Obama? Why cant Republicans just admit that?It was not set by President Obama. The policies pursued by President Obama were tax, spend, going to debt, and regulate heavily,” Varney replied.Hang on, how much debt has President Trump added? Henry asked, noting that Trump has been spending money like mad and adding to the debt.An analysis byThe Joint Committee on Taxation released in November 2017 found that the Republican tax plan would add $1 trillion to the deficit over a decadeeven when accounting for economic growth.	Liberal
Washington Post fact checkers calculated that President Donald Trump is averaging 30 false or misleading claims a day in the last seven weeks and that he said1,104 things that were blatantly false or misleading during the month of October. On October 22, said 83 untrue things in a single day. Currently, the president has made6,420false or misleading claims since he took office 649 days ago.Some recent examples:As the nation grapples with tomorrow’s midterm elections, multiple individuals, including Tony Schwartz, the CEO and founder of the Energy Project, have condemned the president’s lies and rhetoric.“The magnitude of Trump’s lies in the run up to the midterms is astonishing, even by his standards,” he wrote.The magnitude of Trump's lies in the run up to the midterms is astonishing, even by his standards.  Nearly everything he says is untrue, and in any rational world, this would have long since prompted bipartisan outrage. Trump supporters accept lying as a weapon.— Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) November 5, 2018Earlier, Schwartz encouraged all Americans to vote, saying that the United States “cannot survive this hatred unleashed for another two years.”I'm not going to lie. I'm having nightmares that we're going to experience the same trauma of Trump 2016 all over again. The country cannot survive this hatred unleashed for another two years. Vote. Bring friends. Save the planet.— Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) November 5, 2018Daniel Dale, a Washington correspondent withThe Toronto Star, documented numerous statements Trump made during a recent appearance. Among the lies: Trump claimed that he was on Oprah Winfrey’s television show in its last week because she had on “her five most important people.” A simple fact check found that Trump was actually on the show a few months before it officially ended in 2011. (Dale notes that Trump has made this claim four times.)Trump lies that he was on Oprah's show in its last week because she had on "her five most important people." He was on the show 3.5 months before it ended: her last show was on May 25, 2011; Trump appeared on Feb. 7, 2011.— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 4, 2018This is the fourth time Trump has lied that he was on Oprah's show in its last week, but it's the first time he's claimed it was because he was super-important to Oprah. https://t.co/e8jiuzrDTA— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) November 4, 2018Jennifer Rubin, a conservative blogger attheWashington Post defended the roles journalists play to uphold the Fourth Estate.“We are obliged to track Trumps lies, if only to remind Americans of the difference between truth and fiction and to trace the pace of his lies,” she wrote.Whether coverage serves to annoy or satisfy Trumps gargantuan ego is not journalists concern. We are obliged to track Trumps lies, if only to remind Americans of the difference between truth and fiction and to trace the pace of his lies. https://t.co/8FfKXzgv1n— Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) November 4, 2018“It’s truly stunning — and frightening — stuff. What’s more terrifying to me is that Trump’s supporters don’t seem to know — or care — about any of this. They regard fact checks by the media as simply the “fake news” doing everything they can to slow down Trump’s momentum,” writes CNN’s Chris Cillizza, adding:And to the extent they acknowledge that Trump doesn’t tell the truth a lot of the time, they write it off as either a) him just talking or b) that all politicians lie. (Most politicians do say untrue things from time to time. When called on them, however, they stop saying the false things. Trump is not like that.)Trump also works aggressively to ensure that his base sees him as the only honest man in the country, the only person who is really telling it like it is.ANew York Times report from last week appears to support Cillizza’s observations. “Supporters at his [Trump’s] rallies across the country tell reporters that they understand he may not be strictly accurate in his roaring stump speeches, but they see him as a champion of their values,” the report, which discusses what even a Trump ally referred to as his “reality distortion field,” reads.	Liberal
Last week, Donald Trump unveiled a provocative new web ad that accuses Democrats of allowing an illegal immigrant, who later went on to kill a police officer, into the country.Turns out that accusation isn’t true, of course, but that hasn’t stopped Trump and his boosters from sharing and promoting the ad, which has widely been derided as “racist.”On Saturday, Donald Trump Jr. took to Twitter to excoriate CNN for not airing a shorter TV-ready version of the ad, saying “I guess they only run fake news.”CNN refused to run this ad… I guess they only run fake news and wont talk about real threats that dont suit their agenda. Enjoy. Remember this on Tuesday. #vote #voterepublican pic.twitter.com/VyMm7GhPLX— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) November 3, 2018CNN was not going to let that slide without comment, and even got a little snarky with the president’s son:CNN has made it abundantly clear in its editorial coverage that this ad is racist. When presented with an opportunity to be paid to take a version of this ad, we declined. Those are the facts. — CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 3, 2018People could not get enough of CNN’s clap back:Keep up the resistance against lies and demagoguery. I wish the other network news that trump deems fake news would follow your courageous stance. Let Fox run the lies. Funny thing is trump constantly berates CNN and now theyre complaining that youre not running their lies? Huh— Luapers (@luapers) November 3, 2018— Gragae (@Gragae2) November 3, 2018Great to see someone taking a stand for decency.— It's Jeff Manghera! (@TheJeffManghera) November 4, 2018Thank you CNN— Go Cats! (@DfSwildcat) November 3, 2018Ha! Love the apple.— Jeanette Moore (@Jeanett88059891) November 3, 2018And went after Jr.DON'T CONFUSE THE JR TRUMP WITH FACTS!@realDonaldTrump— Dump Trump (@YourFiredLiar) November 3, 2018Because the ad is a complete lie as far as the circumstances of this criminal being in the country are represented. You and IQ45 @POTUS @realDonaldTrump should be more worried about Mueller and what hes going to do after the midterms. — Karen (@kes1doc_karen) November 3, 2018But some felt CNN was being hypocritical.	Liberal
Former President Barack Obama nuked President Donald Trump’s plan to militarize the U.S.-Mexican border in a rousing speech in Florida Friday afternoon.A fired up Obama swiped at Trump during a campaign rally for Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum, the Democrat vying to be Florida’s next governor, and incumbent Senator Bill Nelson (D), who is defending his seat against Florida’s current governor, Republican Rick Scott.“They’re telling you the existential threat to America is a bunch of poor refugees 1,000 miles away,” the 44th president said. “They’re even taking our brave troops away from their families for a political stunt at the border. The men and women of our military deserve better than that.”Watch the clip below:Obama: "They're telling you the existential threat to America is a bunch of poor refugees 1,000 miles away. They're even taking our brave troops away from their families for a political stunt at the border. The men and women of our military deserve better than that." (via ABC) pic.twitter.com/cre2EF5Z2G— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 2, 2018Fans of Obama were elated to see him back on the stump as the country readies itself for the midterm elections, which are just four days away.Beyond inspiring! A true leader! pic.twitter.com/d59YyREkwL— Regina Morales (@Reg2queen) November 2, 2018PEACE. LOVE. OBAMA— FlimFlamenco1009 (@flamenco1009) November 2, 2018Best. President. Ever.— Tybalt_40 (@Tybalt_40) November 2, 2018Just amazing and unbelievable that this was our President only 2 years ago. Seems like 10…..and I feel it.— Paul Allen (@lap346) November 2, 2018Preach!— Chamchu (@lordlakpor) November 2, 2018People are agreeing with Obama about Trump’s approach – it’s ridiculous.It's dumb AF. Those people are approximately 800 miles from the nearest crossable path. An average healthy person walks about 3 miles an hour. People have to sleep at least 4 to 6 hours to keep functioning. It would take 11 days to travel that far at 3 miles an hour without rest— Jeff Jacobsen (@Synapsesame) November 2, 2018Troops want like this job  they would make a better way of diplomacy dialogue.— Encanter Book (@EncanterB) November 2, 2018Tell em, Sir. Our troops do deserve better, and poor people fleeing violence need our help.— Jan the Engineer (@jmesd) November 2, 2018Earlier this week, Trump announced his intention to send as many as 15,000 troops to the southern border to confront Central American refugees that are marching northward through Mexico.	Liberal
“As Maine goes, so goes the nation” was a common phrase in United States politics back in the mid-1800s up until the early 20th century. Could that phrase make a comeback after November 2018?In the 2018 primaries, Maine deployed a new voting system to determine candidates for Governor, the US House of Representatives and the US Senate for the November midterms. The new system is called ranked choice voting.Ranked choice voting allows voters to not only vote for the candidates they want, but also against the candidates they do not want.In the November midterms, due to the Maine Constitution, ranked choice voting in Maine will only be used for federal offices, the US House and Senate, and not for Governor even though it was used in the May 2018 primaries.But proponents of ranked choice voting hope a successful November election process will lead to an amendment to the Maine Constitution to allow future general elections to use ranked choice voting for Governor and other state level offices.So how does it work?The Maine Secretary of State, who oversees elections, produced a video to explain the process to voters.Watch the video here:Still confused?Well, when Maine voters first added a peoples referenduma referendum put on the ballot by petition and signatures of votersfor ranked choice voting in 2016, Linus Obenhaus explained the process in simpler terms using Pokmon.Obenhaus also gave some statistics on why ranked choice voting would be a benefit to Maine.Watch that video here:For voters, the process is pretty simple. Pick your favorite to least favorite candidates for each office that allows ranked choice voting. Ballots in Maine are split between ranked choice and non-ranked choice voting.Here is a sample of a Maine 2018 ballot with ranked choice…and without ranked choice.Each section also tells voters how many people to choose, as some municipal positions like school board or city council require voting for more than one candidate.Maine first began looking at switching to ranked choice voting in 2001. Then from 2003-2013, the legislature tried to pass a law to allow ranked choice voting in the state.After being defeated in the legislature each time, voters in Maine took matters into their own hands and began a petition drive in 2015 to get a peoples referendum added onto the ballot.By 2016, Maineiacs had enough signatures and ranked choice voting went up for a vote. Roughly 52 percent of Maine voters approved implementing ranked choice voting for gubernatorial, congressional and legislative races.However, a decision by Maines Supreme Court nullified its use for general elections for anything except federal offices. And the major political parties do not both support the initiative.While the Maine Democratic Party favors ranked choice voting, Maine Republicans oppose it. Partisan disputes resulted in a bill passed in October 2017 to forestall implementation of ranked choice voting until after the Maine Constitution is amended with a deadline for amending of December 2021.If no amendment was ratified by that date, ranked choice voting would be nullified.Unwilling to give up the option to choose whom they do and do not want to represent them, Maineiacs began a petition to add a peoples veto to the May 2018 primary ballot. They gathered enough signatures in time and in May 2018, the voters of Maine reaffirmed their dedication to ranked choice voting with 54 percent of voters supporting the change.The Maine GOP also filed several court actions to try to stop ranked choice voting, but was unsuccessful.While Maine will be the first state in the USA to use ranked choice voting at a state level, municipalities around the country already use it for local elections. And seven countries also use a version of ranked choice voting in various levels of government: Australia, Malta, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, Scotland and the United Kingdom.So will the rest of the country move to ranked choice voting? Time will tell.	Liberal
Republicans may be urging liberals to #WalkAway from the Democratic party before midterms, but former Republican Senator John Warner thinks it’s Republicans who should be turning that advice toward themselves.During his 30 years as Senator from Virginia, Warner was staunchly Republican. He favored a ban on same sex marriage. He was a friend of corporations and not of the environment.He also just endorsed Virginia DemocratAbigail Spanberger in her race against Republican incumbent Dave Brat to represent Virginia’s 7th District in the House of Representatives.In a statement, Warner praised the former intelligence agent’s character:“She brings a strong understanding of the complex world beyond our nations shores and how that impacts the economy and jobs right here in central Virginia. Abigail has spent her career serving on the front-line to keep our country safe. If elected as a member of Congress, she needs no ‘on the job training’ in how to defend our fellow citizens and strengthen our economy and our national security.”Spanberger isn’t the only Democrat endorsed by Warner, who also lent his voice to Democrat Leslie Cockburn in her race for the 5th district, as well as Democratic Senator Tim Kaine.Warner said of the endorsements:“It goes beyond politics now. Im a Republican, Ill finish a Republican as I cruise through my 91st year. But youve got to put the nations interests and the states interests ahead of politics.” The decision was met with praise on Twitter.John Warner is conservative, but he is old-school Republican – which is sorely missed these days.  I'm pleased that he is weighing in like this.— Annie (@anderinva) November 2, 2018The @GOP should listed to this good piece of advice, before theres nobody left voting for them.— Michelangelo (@_Michelangelo__) November 1, 2018Nice to see some people still have integrity..— DJD  (@djd_17) November 2, 2018Thank you, John Warner.— Susan Frank (@trexmarshall) November 2, 2018This is respect. John realizes it has nothing to do with politics but all to do with Racism, Hate, Division and the lack of Respect got the Country. COUNTRY 1st B4 Politics https://t.co/iaDSxoKKvR— Glassology 101 (@mrvip318) November 2, 2018What’s more, Warner’s words have compelled many to share their stories as well.	Liberal
At one time, Michael Cohen was President Donald Trump’s trusted lawyer and fixer. But after the Mueller probe led to charges against Cohen, the relationship soured.Cohen pleaded guilty to eight charges. At the time, Cohen’s lawyer stated the former Trump fixer acted on orders from his boss, Donald Trump.After the recent acts of domestic terrorism in the form of pipe bombs sent by a fervent supporter of the President to people Trump targets during his rallies and on Twitter and hate crimes in Kentucky and Pennsylvania that left 13 people dead and 6 wounded, Cohen spoke out about the man he knew and worked closely with for years.In an interview with Vanity Fair, Cohen revealed his former employer often made racist comments and used racial slurs during the years he was Donald Trump’s personal lawyer.Cohen recalled oneincident after a 2016 campaign rally. The President’s former lawyer remarked to then President Trump that the crowds at his rallies were mostly white. He claimed Trump responded:“Thats because Black people are too stupid to vote for me.”Trump’s former fixer stated the exchange reminded him of a conversation he had with the President years earlier after the death of South African President Nelson Mandela.Cohen claims Trump said:“Name one country run by a Black person thats not a shithole. Name one city.”The President took flack early in 2018 for referring to countries with predominantly Black populations as “shithole countries,” giving credence to Cohen’s claims.Cohen also recalled a conversation he shared with Trump back in the early 2000s as they traveled through Chicago. Cohen said:“We were going from the airport to the hotel, and we drove through what looked like a rougher neighborhood. Trump made a comment to me, saying that ‘only the Blacks could live like this’.”And while discussing the two finalists on the first season of The ApprenticeBill Rancic, who won, and Kwame JacksonCohen claimed Trump said of the African American Harvard Business School graduate Jackson:“Theres no way I can let this Black f-g win.”The news of Trump’s comments about him came as no surprise to Jackson who stated he had heard aboutThe Apprentice host’s comments before.Of his own role in the making and maintaining of Donald Trump, Cohen stated:“I should have been a bigger person, and I should have left….I truly thought the office would change him.”But will anyone care about President Trump’s past racism?	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Friday tweeted aGame of Thrones-inspired meme of himself declaring new sanctions against Iran, and HBO isn’t happy about it.The image,emblazoned with “SANCTIONS ARE COMING NOVEMBER 5,” is a play on “Winter is Coming,” setting the stage for the final battle between the living and the dead in HBO’s hit series. Trump’s poster also copiedGame of Thrones’ signature font style.pic.twitter.com/nk2vKvHuaL— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 2, 2018A few minutes later, the White House retweeted Trump’s message along with a dark announcement of its own:“The United States has launched a campaign of economic pressure to deny the regime the funds it needs to advance its bloody agenda!”The United States has launched a campaign of economic pressure to deny the regime the funds it needs to advance its bloody agenda! https://t.co/0yuYgpvq5i— The White House (@WhiteHouse) November 2, 2018In a statement to The Hollywood Reporter, HBO said it does not approve of its show’s brand being used for political purposes.“We were not aware of this messaging and would prefer our trademark not be misappropriated for political purposes.”HBO also tweeted: “How do you say copyright infringement in Dothraki?”How do you say trademark misuse in Dothraki?— HBO (@HBO) November 2, 2018Must be a field day over there.HBO PR department right now like pic.twitter.com/Dd95QJMulH— Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) November 2, 2018Reactions on Twitter were priceless.J.K. Rowling nailed it.He who lives by the meme, dies by the meme. pic.twitter.com/UdnqE9Sslr— J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) November 2, 2018Scott Dworkin was at a loss for words.What the fucking fuck is this stupid fucking nonsense? Enough. #VoteDem https://t.co/9pdZJ8qrXp— Scott Dworkin (@funder) November 2, 2018Sanctions really aren’t something to gloat about.This is frankly disgusting. I was responsible, directly, for U.S. sanctions against Iran for a long while. I took pride in their development, design and use. But not joy. Having to do this is lamentable and will impose very real, human costs. Take this seriously, please. https://t.co/FO1qMVaPYl— Richard Nephew (@RichardMNephew) November 2, 2018This is what happens when ‘rock bottom’ rears its head and says, “hold my beer.”Not today. https://t.co/Jg51mGHPO1— Maisie Williams (@Maisie_Williams) November 2, 2018It appears the governing of the United States has changed from a reality TV show into a fantasy TV show. https://t.co/bUoNRwJoqu— Christina Wilkie (@christinawilkie) November 2, 2018i'm starting to question whether we are a grown-up, adult country https://t.co/vsnJjev3d2— Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) November 2, 2018Nothing to see here, just the person occupying the White House announcing policy through a party club flyer. Move it along. https://t.co/UZTwdVWjlI— Call Me Chad In The Fall (@chadstanton) November 2, 2018Like, this took work; real effort. Our tax dollars are hard at work.Someone had to open up photoshop, make this, save the file, export the file, put this in a tweet and hit "Tweet" https://t.co/HY5xfjdjQJ— Kofie (@KofieYeboah) November 2, 2018Naturally, Twitterers fired back with Robert Mueller memes.This next season is gonna be great pic.twitter.com/GfwNDA6Mh8— Brian Koerber (@bkurbs) November 2, 2018 pic.twitter.com/fS0yPlgV3y— Kevin Stevenson (@bighoss2b) November 2, 2018And spoofs.pic.twitter.com/gakfSIacxf— darth (@darth) November 2, 2018Others questioned whether Trump has ever watchedGame of Thrones,but given its complex plot and hour-plus-long episodes, probably not.I bet he doesn't even watch Game of Thrones. https://t.co/rEmH6WsXwu— Rob Young (@robjyoung) November 2, 2018But what if he does?	Liberal
The hostile rhetoric of President Donald Trump is believed to have played a factor in a number of atrocities from the Tree of Life Synagogue shooting to the distribution of homemade bombs to prominent Democrats and media members by one of his supporters.Now, Trump’s recent words regarding his military response to the thousandsof refugees attempting to reach the United States border are being used to justify violence yet again.In a speech on Thursday, Trump insinuated that refugees in the caravan would be shot for throwing rocks:“They want to throw rocks at our military, our military fights back. I told them to consider it a rifle. When they throw rocks like what they did to the Mexicanmilitary and police I say consider it a rifle.”Now, in a sinister twist,just one day after Trump’s aggressive words the Nigerian government has shared the clip on Twitter in order to justify its own acts of violence.Please Watch and Make your Deductions. pic.twitter.com/05yVwULFoh— Nigerian Army (@HQNigerianArmy) November 2, 2018The Nigerian military shocked the world on Monday when soldiers opened fire on over 1,000 Shia protesters. The army said three were killed, but those who were there insist that the number is at least 40. Human rights organizations like Amnesty International have condemned the killings.When asked about the tweet, a spokesman for the Nigerian army said:We released that video to say if President Trump can say that rocks are as good as a rifle, who is Amnesty International? What are they then saying? What did David use to kill Goliath? So a stone is a weapon.Many saw the army’s endorsement of Trump’s comments as an example of the harm in his rhetoric.When Trump says America is respected around the world, he means by despots & respected is the wrong word.— Jeff (@sosorryworld) November 2, 2018The trash that Trump says as part of his bigoted, race-baiting campaign in America has effects around the world. The Nigerian army just pointed to Trumps statement about considering shooting migrants to justify their own shootings of peaceful protesters. https://t.co/okjlVWJlZp— Brian Klaas (@brianklaas) November 2, 2018No hyperbole or hysteria: Donald Trump is a danger to the world. https://t.co/poHwy5E9KL— VOTE DEMS OR YOURE DEAD TO ME (@Cpo10za) November 2, 2018@realDonaldTrump Your words have consequences & now used as a war crime. Countries should sanction YOU personally. Assets U own outside USA maybe seized? Maybe? Nigeria's Army Used A Trump Speech To Justify Shooting Protesters – BuzzFeed News https://t.co/qsNuyUVaJh— Marlene Nienaber (@Marz933) November 2, 2018Trump wasn’t the only one called out for the tweet.	Liberal
Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter Jaime was among those murdered in Parkland, Florida in February, blasted President Donald Trump for instructing U.S. troops to treat rocks thrown by migrants inside Mexico as if they were bullets being fired from rifles.The president on Thursday said that members of the caravan have been “viciously and violently” throwing rocks at Mexican soldiers and that the American troops Trump plans on stationing along the border will not tolerate rock-throwing.Trump described the band of asylum-seeking refugees marauding northward through Mexico as an “invasion” of “tough people” that “will not be allowed into the United States.”“They wanna throw rocks at our military? Our military fights back,” Trump told reporters. “I told them to consider it a rifle. When they throw rocks like they did at the Mexican military and police, I say consider it a rifle.”Watch the president’s remarks below:Donald Trump has told the US military to treat rocks being thrown by migrants at the border as though they were rifles being fired.Here's more on the story: https://t.co/ErTsjSe99a pic.twitter.com/RRKrsOC40S— Sky News (@SkyNews) November 2, 2018This didn’t sit well with Guttenberg.“Trump, the AR 15 that killed my daughter is a firearm. A rock is not,” Guttenberg tweeted on Thursday. “You are a seriously delusional and dangerous person who puts America at risk.”Trump, the AR 15 that killed my daughter is a firearm.  A rock is not.  You are a seriously delusional and dangerous person who puts America at risk.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) November 1, 2018On Friday, Guttenberg tweeted at Trump again, this time posting a picture of himself with Jaime along with an emotional message to anyone who doesn’t understand the difference between stones and guns.“For those Trump thinks are stupid, I will explain the difference between a rock and rifle,” Guttenberg wrote. “If Jaime were hit in the face with a rock, she would be bruised and I would help her heal. Because she was shot with a rifle, she was killed and I visit her at a cemetery. Any questions?”For those Trump thinks are stupid, I will explain the difference between a rock and rifle.  If Jaime were hit in the face with a rock, she would be bruised and I would help her heal.  Because she was shot with a rifle, she was killed and I visit her at a cemetery. Any questions? pic.twitter.com/IJo3usdSnO— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) November 2, 2018Followers of Guttenberg on Twitter rushed to express their sympathies for his family as they continue to mourn the loss of Jaime, one of the 17 students and teachers murdered at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.Oh @fred_guttenberg my heart just hurts so hard for you! Im doing what I can to #GOTV #NewDay #MorningJoe pic.twitter.com/tfpLBLxyr3— suzy greenberg (@stacytklein) November 2, 2018As a #Florida resident and a parent of a teenage daughter & high school student I hear & agree with you.We will never forget what has happened to your daughter and all the Parkland students.#FloridaStrong #VoteBlue— ScopingItOut (@ScopingItOut) November 2, 2018That is the most powerful statement I have ever heard.  My heart breaks for you— Andy Pandy (@Andypan75912219) November 2, 2018God bless you. I don't know how you do it.— Whats_Your_Alibi (@ninbadabing) November 2, 2018Your strength and courage is a light on this dark path we are traveling.— Lorrie Mitchell (@lorriem1969) November 2, 2018Fred, I voted at home yesterday wearing an orange sweater and jeans.  Orange for Jamie and jeans for the straight blue ticket.  #OrangeWaveinNovember— yazkat (@yazkat1) November 2, 2018Im so sorry for your loss. Jaimes name is on my refrigerator. My daughter picked her name last year during a school walkout for school shooting victims and we couldnt bear to throw the paper away. Every time I see her name, Im inspired to do what I can to make a change. — Megan Kelley Hall (@MeganKelleyHall) November 2, 2018Your pain is unfathomable, Mr. Guttenberg, and I'm so sorry you and your family have to endure it.  I'm forever grateful, though, that you've turned it into advocacy for Jaime and for all of our kids.  Thank you.— Michelle Hylton (@chelliehylton) November 2, 2018It is truly tragic that your glowing girl had to lose her life to become a teaching aid for idiots who don't understand what shitty gun laws do. I am so sorry. She looks so beautiful, shiny and happy and lovely. xx— Kate Forster (@kateforster) November 2, 2018Guttenberg even fought back after a troll suggested he supported violence against the police.Please!!!  If a rock was used my daughter and 16 others would be alive today.  That is such a moronic argument.  Have a nice day.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) November 2, 2018Guttenberg has become a prominent opposing voice of the president and widely appreciated.	Liberal
At a rally Thursday in Columbia, Missouri, President Donald Trump stated that the GOP was “the party of all Americans.” Hoping to capitalize on the President’s words, the Republican National Committee created a meme and posted it on Twitter.Memes are not always kind to members of the Republican party. The Texas GOP stumbled in several attempts to promote GOP Senator Ted Cruz over Democratic challenger Beto O’Rourke. And Donald Trump Jr. fumbled several times while posting fake statistics and inaccurate information.The RNC posted their meme with the caption:“Vote Republican!”Vote Republican! pic.twitter.com/5evOjHbsag GOP (@GOP) November 2, 2018But rather than praise and agreement, the meme was mostly mocked online. People found it humorous.HAHAHA HAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA! Michael Aurelio (@aurelioacts) November 2, 2018I have died. Michael Aurelio (@aurelioacts) November 2, 2018Your ghost has possessed me So, HAHAHA HAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA HAHAHAHA! Kelly ritter (@KellybeansTweet) November 2, 2018This is a great comedy web page! jesse nason (@omnichord) November 2, 2018While others called it inaccurate.Not. Even. Close. Bud. bob clendenin (@bobclendenin) November 2, 2018pic.twitter.com/OxdHBgEpp2 Michelle (@michalysse) November 2, 2018I was a Republican for 30 years. I am no longer a Republican. The GOP thinking they’re the party of all Americans is some serious delusion. Kremlin’s Fiddle (@kremlinsfiddle) November 2, 2018My mom was a life long republican. She left in 2008 because she was tired of their fear based politics. Yesterday she said todays gop confirms that she made the right choice. She will vote blue on Tuesday my2greatgirls (@my2greatgirls) November 2, 2018pic.twitter.com/rNR4MufyWf ??CrownKnightNYC???? (@Crownknight60) November 2, 2018Ive voted GOP my entire life. Since 2016, never again. Brown Dog (@BrownDog16) November 2, 2018There, fixed it… pic.twitter.com/DSMO1A73w9 Opinion8ed (@Live2teachLives) November 2, 2018Nope. #VoteBlue all the way. We are so done with this nightmare Mama aint playin (@Muellertime12) November 2, 2018Im sorry, this is a MAJOR factual error. 16,000 Pinocchios. Lisatheeditor (@Lisatheeditor) November 2, 2018Naaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah.Nah. pic.twitter.com/ElbhK8WaDU Christopher W. Jones (@tishightime) November 2, 2018Never. Ever. Ever. Daniel (@kacang_tua) November 2, 2018???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? DeanLeh ???????? (@DeanLeh) November 2, 2018Couldve fooled us! pic.twitter.com/5hFq8cwH1u WeAreAmericansFirst???? (@Coquii73) November 2, 2018The GOP poster child! Emily Cooke (@Emily08291) November 2, 2018The party of the great white nope. Chris Hand (@ChrisHandOne) November 2, 2018Some people brought up a few issues with the GOP.	Liberal
A group of 12migrants traveling by foot from Honduras to the U.S. to seek asylum filed a class-action lawsuit Thursday against President Trump, the Department of Homeland Security and other entities to ensure their “due process” under the Fifth Amendment, whichstates that, “no person shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.”The lawsuit, which was filed Thursday in the U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C., notes thatGuatemala, Honduras and El Salvador are undergoing a well-documented human rights crisis. The suit further claims that the Trump administration is infringing on the plaintiffs’right to the Administrative Procedures Act and the Declaratory Judgement Act.The suit reads, in part:Trumps professed and enacted policy towards thousands of caravanners seeking asylum in the United States is shockingly unconstitutional. President Trump continues to abuse the law, including constitutional rights, to deter Central Americans from exercising their lawful right to seek asylum in the United States, and the fact that innocent children are involved matters none to President Trump…Trump has repeatedly professed that the caravan people will not get into this county, and just as significant, Trump has taken meaningful steps to ensure the world that this is his policy position/initiative, meaningful steps such as deploying thousands of active military troops to the border, waiting on caravan persons to arrive. The legal problem with Trumps plan to stop caravan persons from entering this country is that Plaintiffs are seeking asylum, and Trump simply cannot stop them from legally doing so by using military, or anyone.This Court should also note that President Trump has begun hysterically asserting without any evidence that many criminals and many gang members are in this onslaught of migration. In an effort to create fear and hysteria, Trump has gone so far as to call this an invasion of our Country. Despite these statements and actions, Trump has been unable to produce any evidence of criminals and gang members within the caravan, which has largely proceeded peacefully on its journey. Plaintiffs now request that this Court declare Trumps policy positions/initiatives outlined in this Complaint unconstitutional, to end this case and controversy.The migrants also say that Trump has violated the Flores Agreement by detaining children as a result of his “zero tolerance” family separations policy.Earlier this year,Politifact, the Pulitzer Prize-winning fact-checking service, notedthat while the Homeland Security Departments longstanding policy is to separate children from their custodians when they are referred for criminal prosecution, the Trump administration has opted to prosecute all illegal crossings. Families were rarely prosecuted under previous administrations.Additionally,Politifactobserves, the 1997 Flores Settlement Agreement calls for the release of unaccompanied minors to family members or sponsors who can care for them as their immigration case is resolved. The Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, which Trump haswrongly calleda Democrat rule, determines that unaccompanied minors be transferred to Health and Human Servicescustody.The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled inFlores v. Lynch that detaining children violated a long-standing agreement that bars the government from detaining children in a jail-like setting, even if they are accompanied by their parents.Immigration officials apprehended 54,000 children and their guardiansbetween Oct. 1, 2016, and Jan. 31, 2017, more than double the number caught over the same time period a year earlier, according to onereport.	Liberal
Presidential attorney Rudy Giuliani bungled an endorsement when he tweeted an endorsement of Michigan Republican Senate candidate John James: He misspelled his name twice.“Don James is running for Senate in Michigan,” Giuliani wrote. “Vote for Don James.Don James is running for Senate in Michigan. He is a combat veteran, a successful business man and believes in lower taxes, more jobs, effective health care and safety and security. Hes the future of our party. Lets make that future now.. Vote for Don James.— Rudy Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani) November 2, 2018James jokingly referred to Giuliani as Randy in a tweet thanking him for his endorsement.Thanks, Randy! While you were leading NYC through the aftermath of 9/11, I was at West Point training to bring terrorists to justice. pic.twitter.com/l5F1Vng56u— John James (@JohnJamesMI) November 2, 2018Others had a laugh at Giuliani’s expense.I know that D and R are next to each other on the keyboard but you can't even get his name right? It's Ron James.— Rogue NASA (@RogueNASA) November 2, 2018Now do Ned Cruz!— Adrian 'A Hit Dog Will Holler' Wapcaplet (@AdrianWapcapIet) November 2, 2018Long time, no see, Trudy.Totally off topic: Why did you spend most of your career rooting out corruption, and now are ending your career rooting for corruption?— Winston Smith (@gaslightingus2) November 2, 2018John Dames is running for Surveyor in Mulberry. Vote for she!— Fookin Chooky (@adsdaddy) November 2, 2018In addition to the endorsement from Giuliani, James has received endorsements from President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, andThe Detroit News.With just days until the midterm elections, James received last-minute support fromEnding Spending Action Fund, a super PACfunded by the Adelson and Ricketts families, who are among the GOP’s largest donors. The super PAC ran an advertisement yesterday (also shared by James in his response to Giuliani above) which portrays James, an Iraq war veteran and businessman, “as a change agent while assailing his Democratic opponent, Sen. Debbie Stabenow, as a figure of the past,” according toPolitico..@JohnJamesMI has lived service before self his entire lifeWATCH the TV ad we produced for Outsider PAC featuring those who know John the best — pic.twitter.com/q7otVcI6hS— Content Creative Media (@ContentGOP) November 2, 2018After 40 years, Debbie Stabenow has been in office longer than John James has been alive, the ad says.Independent polls have consistently placed Stabenow ahead of James. Sheheld a9-point lead (52 percent to 43 percent) in an Emerson College survey on Monday. The margin of error is slightly largerthan an Epic-MRApoll last weekthat showed Stabenow, the incumbent, leading by seven points.James is more popular with men, according to the Emerson poll, and he currently holds a 49-percent-to-46-percent edge over Stabenow. She is more popular with women, however, and enjoys a 57 percent to 38 percent lead among that voting bloc.The Michigan Senate race is certain to be one of the more consequential ones of Tuesday’s midterms:Democrats likely need to retain the seat should they want to take control of the upper chamber. Trump won Michigan in 2016 by roughly 10,000 points, a feat which became a rallying cry in his characterizations of Hillary Clinton’s failure to connect with working-class voters.	Liberal
In a desperate attempt to rile up his base ahead of the midterms, President Donald Trump tweeted out a racist campaign ad on Wednesday featuring a cop-killing immigrant who had been deported twice from the United States.“It is outrageous what the Democrats are doing to our Country,” Trump tweeted along with the video. “Vote Republican now!”The ad, clearly designed to stoke fear, shows Bracamontes bragging about murdering two cops.“ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT, LUIS BRACAMONTES, KILLED OUR PEOPLE”the ad reads.“I killed (expletive) cops,” Bracamontes boasted. “They’re (expletive) dead. I don’t (expletive) regret that expletive).” Bracamontes then vowed to break out of prison, promising to “kill more.”“DEMOCRATS LET HIM IN” flashes across the screen before cutting back to Bracamontes (they didn’t).“I don’t (expletive) regret that (expletive),” Bracamontes said. “The only thing that I (expletive) regret is that I (expletive) killed two. I wish (expletive) killed more of those (expletive).”As he’s led out of the courtroom, Bracamontes said he’s “going to kill more cops soon.”“DEMOCRATS LET HIM STAY”appears in bold (they didn’t).“WHO ELSE WOULD DEMOCRATS LET IN?”Afterward, footageplays of what the ad implies are hordes of immigrants (there are no citations or sources listed for what’s shown).Unfortunately for Trump, the facts don’t merit the fear he’s intending to instill in his voters, who see illegal immigration as an existential threat to our national sovereignty.After some digging, The Daily Beastfound that the individual featured in the ad, Luis Bracamontes, hadn’t been let into or allowed to stay in the United States by Democrats as the ad declares.The polar opposite is true.Bracamontes was deported to Mexico in 1997 under President Bill Clinton after he was caught selling drugs. He then had snuck back into the United States by 2001 and was deported a second time under President George W. Bush for being in the country illegally.Less than a year later in 2002, as the Bush administrationgrappled with the fallout from 9-11, Bracamontes found his way into the United States – while Bush was president – and then married an American citizen.Bracamontes was convicted of shooting and killing two Sacramento police officers in 2014. He was sentenced to death in April 2018.In addition, Bracamontes’ weapon of choice was an AR-15, the same gun used in countless mass shootings, including last month’s massacre of Jews at Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.Trump and his Republican cohorts have mounted staunch opposition to limiting the sale of the AR-15, claiming any curtailing of ownership would be an infringement on the Second Amendment.The ad never mentions white nationalist terrorism, nor the Pittsburgh shooting, nor any instance of American slaughter wrought through the barrel of an AR-15.Is anyone surprised Trump would engage in dishonest race-baiting a week before the midterms?Nope.The cop-killer in Trump's twitter video actually came back to the U.S. under George W. Bush, according to The Daily Beast.Trump also failed to mention that the killer used an AR-15, a weapon that Republicans, including Trump, don't want to outlaw.https://t.co/WRVNz4nrdl— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 1, 2018The cop killer that Trump used in his video attacking Democrats for letting into the country actually came back into the United States under Bush https://t.co/GzhhPv6Ua3Via @MichaelDalynyc— Sam Stein (@samstein) November 1, 2018The facts on Luis Bracamontes, the killer in Trump's racist video:1997: 1st deported after a 4-month stint in Joe Arpaio's tent-city jail1998: Arrested and released by Arpaio "for reasons unknown."May 2001: arrest and 2nd deportationFeb. 2002: married in Ariz., Bush prez  https://t.co/HDXWUbJ0du— Adam Klasfeld (@KlasfeldReports) November 1, 2018Can't blame the Democrats for this one darlin'.Luis Bracamontes was deported under Clinton in 1997, then again in 2001 under Bush.Most likely returned under the Bush Admin while he was busy screwing up the entire middle east and starting the 20 Years War.— GildaRoseScotland (@GildaRose77) November 1, 2018Lies again. Bracamontes came back into the county during Bushs administration.  Bracamontes murdered the deputies with an AR-15 assault rifle, which both you and the Republicans have long resisted banning.— Linda Molloy (@LindaMolloy14) November 1, 20185) Trumps video also fails to mention that Bracamontes murdered the deputies with an AR-15 assault rifle, which both he and the Republicans have long resisted banning.The AR-15 has been the weapon of choice for high-profile mass shooters.— Tiny Dancer (@ReelDancing) November 1, 2018Bracamontes was deported twice, but according to Sheriff Joe Arpaio, he slipped through the cracks when he returned illegally. He was stopped multiple times for traffic violations and his background was not checked. How are the democrats responsible for that? pic.twitter.com/TEzQyo0xp2— Cami Sheffield (@CamiAnnS) November 1, 2018@realDonaldTrump deliberately lies ALL THE TIME.https://t.co/LaPzpwmJWF https://t.co/Xzlmo26Tvt— tchriste (@tchriste52) November 1, 2018Nice propaganda video. George W. Bush was president and Republicans controlled the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives when Bracamontes entered the U.S. Illegally in 2001 and 2003.  Not that your followers are concerned about actual facts.— A Fritz (@AnthonyFritz19) November 1, 2018Cop-Killer in Trump Video Came Back to U.S. Under Bush— Jean Sutherland (@JeanSutherland6) November 1, 2018Oh those pesky facts— Rich B (@igod316) November 1, 2018Bracamontes (in Trump's offensive video post today) actually came into the US under GEORGE BUSH. Democrats had nothing to do with it. #TrumpLies— Lee in Iowa (@Lee_in_Iowa) November 1, 2018The Bracamontes spot is triggering memories of the 1988 election when Republicans used Willie Horton, a convicted murderer who happened to be black, as a racist scapegoat to scare voters.	Liberal
It’s rare these days that politics should be associated with joy, but overjoyed is just what one Georgia voter was when she opened her door to see none other billionaire media mogul Oprah Winfrey.Winfrey was in Georgia doing her part to get out the vote by going door to door to make sure people were registered and to discuss the platform of Democratic nominee for governor Stacey Abrams. The woman understandably does a double take when realizing who just knocked on her door and the reaction is priceless.Oprah goes door-knocking in Georgia. https://t.co/tgfCS2scSl pic.twitter.com/NKqOTaEJ1o— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 1, 2018Winfrey was canvassing after speaking at an event for the Abrams campaign in Marietta, Georgia. During a speech, she stressed the importance of voter turnout, saying:“For anybody here who has an ancestor who didn’t have the right to vote, and you are choosing not to vote — wherever you are in this state, in this country — you are dishonoring your family. You are disrespecting and disregarding their legacy, their suffering and their dreams, when you don’t vote.”The woman who answered the door, known as Denise, told Winfrey that she had every intention to vote.Now, Americans can’t help but imagine what their reaction would be if Oprah randomly showed up at their house.Me if Oprah came knocking at my door pic.twitter.com/TYAwoDUdCc— CosmoPollytan Mama Said VOTE Them Out (@ULovedMeOnce) November 1, 2018See, if that happened to me, I'd faint and be flat out on the floor. OPRAH!— Debe (@laladytoclt) November 1, 2018Omg. If Oprah came to my door… pic.twitter.com/5TyX6m5Khc— nicki (@nickiknowsnada) November 1, 2018I wish Oprah were going door-to-door here. I'd open the door and give her a big hug. And I'm mot someone who gives hugs usually. #Oprah— Richard Sitler (@RichardSitler) November 1, 2018While it’s certainly fun to imagine answering that knock, others acknowledged that the effects of Oprah’s actions aren’t imaginary at all.As a former Atlantan I say, keep knockin Oprah. Use your wealth to hire cars, busses, & handicap vans to take folks to the polls from their churches, senior centers, veterans facilities, VFW halls, rehab facilities, shelters.  Do it O!— Elizabeth C. Hasse (@NewzJunkieB) November 1, 2018This is great. I just wish there were more celebrities that were doing this earlier to get the unregistered voters out there as well. That would have been a 2 for 1 win. Oprah is awesome.— Monica Graham (@graham_monica) November 1, 2018IF OPRAH CAN GO KNOCK ON DOORS GEORGIA  YOU CAN GO VOTE, DON'T LET ANYTHING STOP YOU FROM VOTING!!!— mel gorby (@melgonorth) November 1, 2018While Oprah may be the most legendary of Abrams’s backers, she’s hardly the first celebrity to raise their voice for the Abrams campaign.	Liberal
Fox News has often been accused of serving as a mouthpiece for President Donald Trump and his policy proposals, but the latest message from the network’s research team contradicts the president’s claims that the stock market is the healthiest its ever been under his watch.Fox News Research noted that the Dow, S&P 500 Index, and Nasdaq had all suffered their worst monthly point loss as of last month. The team dubbed October 2018 “A Scary Month for Stocks.”October A Scary Month For Stocks:Dow:Worst monthly pt loss since Oct 2008Worst monthly % loss since Jan 2016S&P 500:Worst monthly pt loss on recordWorst monthly % loss since Sep 2011Nasdaq:Worst monthly pt loss since Nov 2000Worst monthly % loss since Nov 2008 pic.twitter.com/VvYE2RYQ4c— Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) November 1, 2018The Fox News Research team weren’t the only ones noting last month’s losses.Entrepreneur Michael Skolnik pointed out that U.S. stock markets “lost nearly $2 trillion” last month, effectively wiping out gains made in 2018.U.S. stock markets lost nearly $2 trillion in October.October was the worst month for the S&P 500 since September 2011.Donald Trumps economic policies suck.— Michael Skolnik (@MichaelSkolnik) November 1, 2018Earlier this week, political scientist Brian Klaas observed that the stock market is “down 2,174 points from late January 2018” an eight percent drop. The Dow is also lower than the day the president signed the GOP tax plan into law on the promise that the stock market would see significant gains in its wake. (Economists have long said otherwise.)Donald Trump constantly takes credit for stock market and brags about it. Well, it's currently down 2,174 points from late January 2018, a drop of 8% from that peak. The Dow is even 312 points *lower* than the day that Trump signed the tax bill into law.— Brian Klaas (@brianklaas) October 29, 2018Bishop Talbert Swan of the Church of God in Christ said that not only have all of 2018’s gains been “completely wiped out,” but that the president and the GOP have added $1.3 trillion dollars to the national debt in one year, an amount whichBusiness Insider notes is“the highest total debt issuance since the depths of the Great Recession.”BREAKING: The Stock Markets is back to where it was a year ago. All gains have been completely wiped out.ONE IMPORTANT DIFFERENCE: @realDonaldTrump and the GOP have added $1.3 TRILLION DOLLARS to our debt. IN ONE. YEAR!See why they arent boasting on the markets anymore?— Bishop Talbert Swan (@TalbertSwan) November 1, 2018In recent days, the president, in messages meant to assuage his base, has characterized the stock market’s losses as “a little pause,” although yesterday he wrote that the stock market had risen “more than 400 points.”The Stock Market is up massively since the Election, but is now taking a little pause – people want to see what happens with the Midterms. If you want your Stocks to go down, I strongly suggest voting Democrat. They like the Venezuela financial model, High Taxes & Open Borders!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 30, 2018Stock Market up more than 400 points yesterday. Today looks to be another good one. Companies earnings are great!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018The president was also taken to task for his claims about the stock market last week when constructionequipment manufacturer Caterpillarblamedits disappointing stock market performance, which kept its adjusted earnings guidance for 2018 steady, falling short of the increase analysts had projected, on his tariffs. The companys analysts sayhigher material costs due to steel and tariffs drove up manufacturing costs, which caused its stock to dive 8 percent despite an 18 percent increase in company revenue.If you were to ask the president, however, youd hear a different story. That day, the president responded to criticism of the tariffs his administration imposed on steel and aluminum imports, insisting that tariffs would continue so long as other countries dont give us a fair Trade Deal.Billions of dollars are, and will be, coming into United States coffers because of Tariffs. Great also for negotiations – if a country wont give us a fair Trade Deal, we will institute Tariffs on them. Used or not, jobs and businesses will be created. U.S. respected again!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 23, 2018Caterpillars announcement comes after electric vehicle manufacturer Polaris Industries said its suppliers musthelp offset the cost of President Donald Trumps trade wars if they want to keep doing business,accordingtoBloomberg.	Liberal
Donald Trump Jr. on Wednesday took to Twitter to remind people to vote, but he probably wasn’t expecting the savage mockery he’d receive from telling people to go to the polls on the wrong day.“In 7 DAYS we need every patriot to get to the polls and make their voice heard LOUD and CLEAR!” President Donald Trump’s eldest son wrote.In 7 DAYS we need every patriot to get to the polls and make their voice heard LOUD and CLEAR! #VoteRepublican @kimguilfoyle @AmericaFirstPol pic.twitter.com/mAlg8HbNMO— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) October 31, 2018Except the election isn’t on November 7, it’s on November 6. Junior is pushing people to the polls on the wrong date.Twitter isn’t going to let this one go, not a chance.Some went along with Junior’s plan.Since it was Halloween, we’ll just count these as tricks.Ignore the typo – go to the polls in 7 DAYS (Nov 7th) and VOTE— Fussy_Logic (@Fussy_Logic) October 31, 2018Brilliant! Yes, please vote in 7 DAYS!! That would be awesome. #TheBestPeople #Unbelievable— Rob De Haan (@robdehaan) November 1, 2018https://twitter.com/MyCatsBidding/status/1057649552768073728And remember Junior! Tuesday is voting day for Democrats. Wednesday is for Republicans!! #MoronSonOfAMoron— Judith Harrington (@mollymom2011) November 1, 2018Yeah, patriots voting in 7 days works well. Its clear that Donny Jr inherited dads lack of math skills. Maybe thats a gene that is imbedded in either a chin or a brain. Keep it up, brainiac. #BeBadInMath#NoChinNoProb#DumbAsDirt— trubilini (@trubilini) October 31, 2018Sushi! @DonaldJTrumpJr thinks voting day is Nov. 7th!— FormullaD (@formullaD) October 29, 2018https://twitter.com/MyCatsBidding/status/1057649552768073728Yes, everyone, you heard @DonaldJTrumpJr!In 7 DAYS, get out and vote Republican! (But in 6 days, come out and vote for Democrats, since that's, you know, election day.) #WednesdayWisdom pic.twitter.com/JIXAxKfHxC— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) October 31, 2018Yes GOP MAKE SURE YOU GO VOTE IN 7 DAYS.  Not 6.  7.  Definitely 7.— Turd Ferguson (@Tvrd_F3rguson) October 31, 2018@kimguilfoyle @AmericaFirstPol @realDonaldTrump  Donny Jr knows best. Vote Republican 7 days from yesterday as he requested…https://t.co/Frg9gkBCd7— Matt Wolff (@mawg8trs) November 1, 2018Was he lying, or is Junior simply bad a math? Not sure which is better but either way, it’s funny.You're fake news… seven days?! Everyone else is voting in six. Lol. Has anyone every told you you look like butthead? pic.twitter.com/lzRNPq0AEJ— Gizmoto (@Gizmoto2) November 1, 2018He's been lying to you that illegals are voting, what makes you think he won't lie about this?— Uncle Chester (@CreepyUncle69) November 1, 2018@DonaldJTrumpJr most likely won't be there on the 1., the stupid dumbf**k doesn't know the dates or the numbers"Trump Jr. gets mocked for urging Republicans to go vote in 7 days"https://t.co/6RQLcKFQ7k— Juha Keskinen (@MacFinn44) October 31, 2018STUPID IS, STUPID DOES#TrumpJr. gets mocked for urging #Republicans to go vote in 7 days #MOG#MAGA#MeToo #Millennialshttps://t.co/oBO1fvZkik— Michael O'Grady (@mog7546) October 31, 2018@POTUS/@GOP goals: *Kick MILLIONS OF AMERICANS off healthcare *Make arterial-slashes to #SocialSecurity/#Medicare/#Medicaid*End protection for pre-existing conditionsIn 7 DAYS, Americans have the power to protect themselves & their families. VOTE. @DNC #VoteBlue pic.twitter.com/boaH0lK6mE— Francisco Castro (@FKAFernando) October 31, 2018Cmon guys, dont be so petty for a simple mistake. We should mock him for all the other stupid shit he says. https://t.co/mq1t1tMi4d via rawstory— Steven Ochoa (@StevenGOchoa) October 31, 2018Oh but we do. The real treat is the video.	Liberal
A little girl who captured hearts with her reaction to former First Lady Michelle Obama’s official portrait in the National Portrait Gallery is doing it again. This time with her Halloween costume.A Facebook photo of then 2-year-old Parker Curry went viral back in March. The photographerBen Hinesdid not know Curry, but found her enraptured expression over the portrait of the former First Lady worth capturing.Parker’s look of awe and wonder at the larger than life portrait spoke to many people.Here is that original photo.Eventually Parker Curry’s family identified her and she got a chance to meet the former FLOTUS in person.Parker, I’m so glad I had the chance to meet you today (and for the dance party)! Keep on dreaming big for yourself…and maybe one day I’ll proudly look up at a portrait of you! pic.twitter.com/faUVTsYWun Michelle Obama (@MichelleObama) March 6, 2018Amy Sheraldthe artist behind the portraitshared the Curry family’s photo of the same moment, taken from a different angle, on Instagram.  Feeling all the feels. ?? When I look at this picture I think back to my first field trip in elementary school to a museum. I had only seen paintings in encyclopedias up to that point in my life. There was a show up of work by painter @thebobartlett whose work still inspires me to this day. There was a painting of a black man standing in front of a house. I don’t remember a lot about my childhood, but I do have a few emotional memories etched into my mind forever and seeing that painting of a man that looked like he could be my father stopped me dead in my tracks. This was my first time seeing real paintings that weren’t in a book and also weren’t painted in another century. I didn’t realize that none of them had me in them until I saw that painting of Bo’s. I knew I wanted to be an artist already, but seeing that painting made me realize that I could. What dreams may come? #representationmattersA post shared by  Amy Sherald (@asherald) on Mar 2, 2018 at 8:01am PSTAccording to Jessica Curry, Parker’s mother, the now 3-year-old little girl is still obsessed with her idol.So who better for Parker to be for Halloween than the First Lady? And what better costume than one inspired by the dress in the portrait that so fascinated her?A Twitter account run by Jessica Curry debuted Parker’s First Lady look on Halloween night.Happy #Halloween! Can you guess who I am? pic.twitter.com/LZA95MT9rl Parker Curry (@_parkercurry) November 1, 2018remember Parker Curry, the toddler who was obsessed with @MichelleObamas portrait?Her mom, Jessica, just sent me this Halloween update ?? pic.twitter.com/12PRhUgsDu David Mack (@davidmackau) November 1, 2018Heres the side-by-side ???? pic.twitter.com/TqnWAtjqK4 David Mack (@davidmackau) November 1, 2018People loved Parker’s Michelle Obama costume, but one very important fan made it even more special.	Liberal
Stacey Abrams and Brian Kemp may be vying for voters in Georgia, but the campaign between the two ideological opposites has captivated the nation.What was supposed to be the second and final televised debate has now been cancelled as Kemp, who is also Georgia’s secretary of state, has opted to instead join President Donald Trump at a just-announced campaign rally in Macon.The Kemp campaign, however, released a statement blaming former Congresswoman Stacey Abrams.STACEY ABRAMS CANCELS WSB-TV DEBATE, KEMP CAMPAIGN RESPONDS > https://t.co/FRrCnjuaOr #gapol #gagop #tcot #gafirst— Brian Kemp (@BrianKempGA) October 31, 2018The Kemp campaign said in a statement:“Earlier today, radical Stacey Abrams announced that she will not participate in the WSB-TV debate…Abrams is ducking Georgia voters because she can’t defend her extreme, radical agenda on live television.”Representatives for Kemp claimed to have tried to reschedule the debate for the night before the election, but Abrams chose to keep her remaining commitments to meet with Georgia voters instead of rescheduling a debate that had been on the books for six weeks. To the Kemp campaign, this somehow meant that she was to blame.We believe it would be irresponsible to break our commitment to accommodate his failures. In lengthy statement, @staceyabrams says no to a rescheduled election-eve debate. @BrianKempGA pulled out of initial Sunday debate when Trump planned a visit at same time.  #gapol pic.twitter.com/LFa3Ty5AR9— Greg Bluestein (@bluestein) November 1, 2018The Abrams campaign said in another statement:“Brian Kemp says he wants to be our next governor, but he’s breaking his promise to show up for the job interview. This isn’t a surprise since his entire career has been defined by his failure to keep his commitments.”WSB, the station that was set to air the debate confirmed that, despite the Kemp campaign insisting that the blame rested with Abrams, it was in fact Kemp’s team that pulled out of the debate. The Kemp campaign’s statement on the matter was false.The ABC-station hosting the debate, @wsbtv, confirms that Georgia Republican gubernatorial candidate Brian Kemp has withdrawn. He will host President Trump in Macon that day. https://t.co/CLZjdlsXD3— Jeffrey Cook (@JeffreyCook) October 31, 2018Now, people are calling out Kemp for lying about the decision.So youve borrowed the Presidents top campaign strategy? Lying.— Ken Olin (@kenolin1) November 1, 2018Youre a liar. Youre also bad at it.— The Hoarse Whisperer (@HoarseWisperer) November 1, 2018"On Tuesday, six weeks after agreeing to participate, Kemp canceled his appearance in the debate. Abrams did not pull out."Tell the truth.— cynsight (@cynsight) November 1, 2018lying ass vote suppressor— Ira (@ira) November 1, 2018The lie appears to have backfired.	Liberal
On Wednesday afternoon, President Donald Trump unveiled a new Republican campaign ad that many accuse of being blatantly racist fearmongering. The President posted the ad to his Twitter account.Despite statistical evidence that undocumented immigrants commit fewer crimes and fewer violent crimes than natural born citizens in the United States, Trump continued to portray Latin American immigrants as violent threats to the US and blamed Democrats for any violence by immigrants.The ad comes shortly after three conservative US citizens murdered 13 people with hate crimes targeting African Americans in Kentucky and Jews in Pennsylvania and another Republican citizenlabeled the MAGAbomber for his idolization of Trump and the GOPsent a series of pipe bombs to prominent Democrats and critics the President targeted.None of the three had ties to Latin America.Trump captioned the ad:“It is outrageous what the Democrats are doing to our Country. Vote Republican now! Vote.GOP”Watch the ad here.It is outrageous what the Democrats are doing to our Country. Vote Republican now! https://t.co/0pWiwCHGbh pic.twitter.com/2crea9HF7G Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018But not everyone in the GOP is applauding the new ad campaign.According to Jake Tapper, Republican Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona who chose to retire rather than seek reelection commented:“This is just a new low in campaigning. Its sickening.”Response of @JeffFlake to this new Trump ad: This is just a new low in campaigning. Its sickening. https://t.co/f6oyjId6O7 Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) October 31, 2018The retiring GOP Senator was far from alone in his sentiments. Many online denounced the President’s post and called for people to show their disagreement with Trump’s tactics at the polls during the midterm elections on November 6.Some in media said today that in closing days of campaign “Trump is pushing immigration.” No, let’s be clear: Trump is pushing hate. (((DeanObeidallah))) (@DeanObeidallah) November 1, 2018I am looking at this positively bc I think most americans don’t fall for this fear mongering BS. I think this will backfire for the GOP on Tuesday.Sure hope I’m right Dean JDP (@petee224) November 1, 2018I think the exact opposite. There are millions who will believe anything their orange overlord & the Grand Old Propaganda party tells them. We need all those who see through the fear campaigns to vote as if their life depended on it – because it does. Komb4thestormbreaker (@dak0mish) November 1, 2018yes, those millions definitely will fall for it. but they are not the majority, not even close. it is all about the numbers bc there are more of us than them, but they always vote. if we get our peeps to the polls, we can do this. gonna be a long 5 days that’s for sure. peace JDP (@petee224) November 1, 2018As for those who aided this monster in his hate propaganda campaign, who enabled him to prey on racist fears to fabricate a national emergency, an “invasion”, who said to themselves, This is the play Every single one of them bears some responsibility for what followed. Sarah?? (@Sarah_SKG_1983) November 1, 2018This video smells of this guy right here????????Has is name written all over it pic.twitter.com/krZaQTIegn Trek3871?????? (@Trek3871D) November 1, 2018People also fact checked the President.I really don’t understand what Trump means when he says that Democrats let him in – he was deported twice; is Trump going to guarantee that anyone entering the country illegally during his term will not kill anybody, and accept responsibility if they do? It’s absurd. James Miller (@james_in_snow) November 1, 2018Took the words right out of my mouth. So the Democratic Party was standing at the border and opened the door for the guy. So in retrospect Republicans are responsible for mass shootings but of their unwillingness to vote on gun control. Kevin Schneider (@KSchneiderJR) November 1, 2018He was here a decade before the crime, which means he came back in under W’s watch. tommy (@n2play) November 1, 2018pic.twitter.com/IoUgmWK1BA Carlos Torres (@carlost20267803) November 1, 2018However people had harsh words for Senator Flake as well.	Liberal
President Donald Trump defended his attacks on the press as the “enemy of the people” in an exclusive interview with Axios set to air on Sunday.Jim Van de Hei challenged the president on the risks of his charged rhetoric.“To be honest, what scares the crap out of me is if you’re saying… ‘enemy of the people,’ ‘enemy of the people,’ what happens if someone gets shot?” Van de Hei asked Trump.“They like me more because of it,” Trump boasted. “But if you gave me false reports, I would say that’s not a good thing for our country,” Trump added after Van de Hei asked Trump if he sees Axios as an “enemy of the people.”The exchange continued:“Youare the most powerful man in the world,” Van de Hei said to Trump, who smirked at the compliment. “And if you say that word  ‘enemy,’ ‘enemy,’ ‘enemy’ think about what enemy means.”“Ithink I’m doing a service [by attacking the press] when people write stories about me that are so wrong,” Trump responded.“I know what I do goodand what I do bad. I really get it, OK? I really get it better than anybody in the whole world.”“Tens of thousands of people go into a stadium to listen to you, and then people go on social media and they get themselves so jazzed up,” reporter Jim Van de Hei pressed. “Theres got to be a part of you that’s like: ‘Dammit, I’m scared that someoneisgonna take it too far.'”“It’s my only form of fighting back,” Trump told Van de Hei. “I couldnt be here if I didn’t do that.Van de Hei threw Trump’s answer right back in his face.“You won!” Van de Hei exclaimed. “You have the presidency!”Watch the clip below:EXCLUSIVE: President Trump defends his "enemy of the people" attacks on the media https://t.co/ucMwCkXvBp pic.twitter.com/qK0CMLycnX— Axios (@axios) November 1, 2018Social media tore into Trump for not being able to take any sort of criticism.Clearly a very weak man who cant even rationally and intelligently defend his repulsive behavior. And thats the leader of the world, the commander in Chief, the President of the United States. Very sad and dangerous.— Elvarstam (@elvarstam) November 1, 2018Oh my God @realDonaldTrump! You are your own worst defender. You should shut you mouth. When you say "It's my only form of fighting back", you're admitting that you don't have the character needed to be presidential.— S.O.S. Save American Democracy! (@SaveAmericanDem) November 1, 2018#AxiosOnHBO When #Trump says the "press is the enemy".Trump: "It's my only form of fighting back"So 45 admitted he will be combative to anyone that speaks ill of him.He can't take criticism, no matter what.#ICYMI #ThursdayThoughts— Mrs D  (@Mrs_Cldh) November 1, 2018@realDonaldTrump  'It's my only form of fighting back!' because you can't handle the truth…you traitor, tyrant & soulless sack of shit.#VoteBlueToEndThisNightmare— deb (@DebraNickols) November 1, 2018Spoken: "It's my only form of fighting back."Unsaid: "… because I'm not smart enough to think of any other way to deal with volatile situations."#TrumpCrimeFamily—  (@teeveedub) November 1, 2018Trump didn’t appear to care or appreciate the weight that his rhetoric carries.	Liberal
Speaking at a rally in Florida, President Donald Trump revived talk of abolishing birthright citizenship, calling the Constitution’s citizenship clause a “crazy policy” and telling those in attendance thatillegal immigrants are not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.That statement was soon turned on its head by attorney George Conway, the husband of White House counselor Kellyanne Conway.“To say that “illegal immigrants are not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States” is just drivel,” he wrote, noting that if the president’s claim had merit, then the government would not be able to arrest them.To say that illegal immigrants are not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is just drivel. Were that true, then the government wouldnt be able to arrest them. Surely thats not the Presidents position. Clearly he has no comprehension of the words hes using. https://t.co/LYlutDG73M— George Conway (@gtconway3d) November 1, 2018Others concurred with Conway’s assessment, particularly in light of aWashington Post op-ed he wrote with Neal Katyal, the former acting solicitor general of the United States in which they noted that Trump’s pledge to abolish birthright citizenship is not only unconstitutional but at odds with decades of legal consensus.Drivel indeed. @gtconway3d has this totally right. Trumps ignorance is impossible to deny. Hope you have a comfortable couch at home, George. https://t.co/eXbarTeFo2— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) November 1, 2018Many people sacrifice in many different ways to defend our Constitution.  @GTconway3d, despite the obvious difficulties he confronts, stands firmly on the side of the law.https://t.co/40xEvsE7ju— Richard W. Painter (@RWPUSA) October 31, 2018George Conway is quickly becoming the Shep Smith of the White House universe. We're past the point now where people need to say "OMG George Conway…." or "It's going to be a crazy night at the Conway household" We get the point. https://t.co/O28fKQFvhj— Yashar Ali  (@yashar) October 30, 2018Earlier this week, the president signaled he would sign an executive orderthat would seek to end the right to U.S. citizenship for children born in the United States to noncitizens.How ridiculous, were the only country in the world where a person comes in, has a baby, and the baby is essentially a citizen of the United States for 85 years with all of those benefits, the presidenttoldAxiosaspart of anHBO seriesset to air this weekend. Its ridiculous. Its ridiculous. And it has to end.Trump said he has discussed ending birthright citizenship with his legal counsel. He believes the move can be accomplished with executive action; legal scholars, however, disagree.It was always told to me that you needed a constitutional amendment. Guess what? You dont, Trump said.You can definitely do it with an act of Congress. But now theyre saying I can do it just with an executive order.Its in the process. Itll happen with an executive order.The presidents comments are largely seen as an attempt to whip up support for Republican candidates ahead of the midterm elections, in which immigration is a key issue for the GOP base. The move earned a harsh rebuke from the American Civil Liberties Union.This is a blatantly unconstitutional attempt to fan the flames of anti-immigrant hatred in the days ahead of the midterms.The 14th Amendments citizenship guarantee is clear. You cant erase the Constitution with an executive order, @realDonaldTrump. https://t.co/8vGkjOlPsE— ACLU (@ACLU) October 30, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump in his quest to unilaterally repeal the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, thus ending birthright citizenship, is invoking the words of former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) to help make his case.In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Trump said birthright citizenship is “unfair to our citizens” and “will be ended one way or another.” We’ll come back to the “subject to the jurisdiction thereof” later.So-called Birthright Citizenship, which costs our Country billions of dollars and is very unfair to our citizens, will be ended one way or the other. It is not covered by the 14th Amendment because of the words subject to the jurisdiction thereof. Many legal scholars agree…..— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018Shortly thereafter, the president, using Reid as a crutch, assailed Democrats for going “insane” for “open borders” while decrying the “nasty term” ‘anchor babies’ (a derogatory term for children of undocumented immigrants that members of his party love to throw around).“I will keep our Country safe,” Trump wrote. “This case will be settled by the United States Supreme Court!”….Harry Reid was right in 1993, before he and the Democrats went insane and started with the Open Borders (which brings massive Crime) stuff. Dont forget the nasty term Anchor Babies. I will keep our Country safe. This case will be settled by the United States Supreme Court!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018Trump then posted a video clip of Reid in 1993 speaking on the Senate floor about illegal immigration to help bolster his case.Here’s what Reid said:“If making it easy to be an illegal alien isn’t easy enough, how about offering a reward for being an illegal immigrant? No sane country would do that, right? Guess again. If you break our laws by entering this country without permission and give birth to a child, we reward that child with U.S. citizenship, guaranteeing full access to all public and social services this society provides… and that’s a lot of services. Is it any wonder that two-thirds of the babies born at taxpayer-expensed county-run hospitals in Los Angeles are born to illegal alien mothers?”Harry Reid, when he was sane, agreed with us on Birthright Citizenship! pic.twitter.com/ypiE1QWKag— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018Turns out, Reid doesn’t agree with Trump in the least. Thus, Reid respondedWednesday afternoon with an epic takedown of Trump’s attempt to twist his words.“In 1993, around the time Donald Trump was gobbling up tax-free inheritance money from his wealthy father and driving several companies into bankruptcy, I made a mistake,” Reid said in a statement. “After I proposed that awful bill, my wife Landry immediately sat me down and said, “Harry, what are you doing, don’t you know that my father is an immigrant?” She set me straight.”Trump’s take on Reid’s Senate speech, the Democrat said, is just plain wrong. “Immigrants are the lifeblood of our nation.”“And in my 36 years in Washington, there is no more valuable lesson I learned than the strength and power of immigrants and no issue I worked harder on than fixing our broken immigration system,” Reid added. “I had the privilege of learning from heroes like Astrid Silva who came to this nation as a little girl and has emerged as a powerful leader. Immigrants are the lifeblood of our nation. They are our power and our strength. This president wants to destroy not build, to stoke hatred instead of unify. He can tweet whatever he wants while he sits around watching TV, but he is profoundly wrong.”Below is a clip of Reid admitting he was wrong and that his stance in 1993 was “the biggest mistake” of his life.Unlike some People!Harry Reid is actually capable of acknowledging a mistake and accepting accountability for his actions!You should try it some time!"THE BIGGEST MISTAKE I EVER MADE, THE LARGEST ERROR THAT I EVER MADE WAS 15 OR 18 YEARS AGOpic.twitter.com/zjCtSzTclW— Ryan Hill (@RyanHillMI) October 31, 2018The public remembers Reid’s change of heart quite vividly.The S.1351 Immigration Stabilization Act of 1993 was NOT popular among Democrats just because it was sponsored by one and doesn't reflect the views of the party.It was never even voted on because it was shot down in the Committee on the Judiciary (Chairman Joe Biden).— GrenMeera (@GrenMeera) October 31, 2018Can anyone imagine tRump doing this, admitting to being in the wrong?! Senator Reid had/has integrity, honesty & is a class act.  #VOTEBLUE— Cid White (@CidWhite2) October 31, 2018And hes since said several times that this was the biggest mistake of his life.— Christie (@Christie_D22) October 31, 2018The Las Vegas Review-Journal reported that Reid has since called his speech "way up high" on his "list of mistakes," and in 2006 he referred to it as a "low point" of his legislative career.— c-l-g-m (@bksrmyaddiction) October 31, 2018That was in 1993 and he regretted it and changed his tune about it when he realized his wife was the daughter of immigrants. Much like your son is the son of an immigrant. Are you considering nullifying your own son's status as an American?— Wanda Garrett (@twinwanda) October 31, 2018Harry Reid says that unlike you, who never admit mistakes, he not only admits this was wrong but learned from it.— Donna McMahon (@Oooooo_Donna) October 31, 2018Twitter tore into Trump as well, with many wondering if he plans on revoking the citizenship of his children, four of whom (Ivanka, Junior, Eric, and Barron) were born to non-citizens (Ivana and First Lady Melania, respectively).	Liberal
In an interview with Axios for HBO, President Donald Trump stated he plans to remove the right of citizenship by birthright in the United States. That right became part of the Constitution through the 14th Amendment.The 14th Amendment to the Constitutionwas adopted on July 9, 1868, as one of the Reconstruction Amendments after the Civil War. It essentially granted citizenship to all who had been slaves. It stated:“All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.”Trump believes he can issue an executive order to eliminate birthright citizenship. As justification for doing so, Trump stated:“Now how ridiculous, we’re the only country in the world where a person comes in has a baby and the baby is essentially a citizen of the United States for 85 years with all of those benefits.”“It’s ridiculous. It’s ridiculous. And it has to end.”The President than added:“It’s in the process. It’ll happen … with an executive order.”Watch the interview excerpt here.But is the President right? Is the United States the only country in the world to offer birthright citizenship?Fox News decided the fact check Trump’s claim. It turned out, the USA is very much not the only country in the world to offer birthright citizenship.Fox News shared their results on Twitter, stating:“Countries with Birthright Citizenship: At least 35 countries offer automatic, unconditional citizenship to children born within their borders. Canada and the US are examples of two countries with large, advanced economies that grant automatic birthright citizenship.”Countries with Birthright Citizenship: At least 35 countries offer automatic, unconditional citizenship to children born within their borders. Canada and the US are examples of two countries with large, advanced economies that grant automatic birthright citizenship. pic.twitter.com/njm90yCdOi Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) October 31, 2018Some people were amazed Fox News had a research department to check facts.Fox has a research group? Marky Mark Twain (@OldManRiver1800) October 31, 2018Holy #$#+ Fox News has a research division?! Blue is Better (@blueisbetter) October 31, 2018Does potus or the rest of the employees of FOX know you exist? Or is this a joke? ~ ~ (@TwinBTweeter) October 31, 2018Does anyone in the News Dept read your tweets? WELCOME TO MANISTAN (@HollyCareBear) October 31, 2018Wow! Truth without bias or rhetoric Jodie Robinett (@jodie_robinett) October 31, 2018I was amazed to learn Fox had a news research dept. wish Fox News reporters would actually use it. Rita Cary (@RitaCary) October 31, 2018Shepard Smith would. He is very fair and reasonable. @seanhannity and many others on @FoxNews are merely actors. bigmikecooks (@BigMikeHeCooks) October 31, 2018So true!! They are merely highly paid actors. tgikcg (@tgikcg) October 31, 2018sadly theyve become more than the actors they were before, as theyre now leading presidential advisors zachary (@zchrywst) October 31, 2018Now if Fox reporters would actually look at the factual information put out by their own research dept & use those facts, people might actually start having respect for that network. Rita Cary (@RitaCary) October 31, 2018This is a start, Fox, but you’ve done a lot of damage with your “news” coverage. You may be the only way to reach the monsters you’ve created. DontLookAtAngie (@4Ev3rblue) October 31, 2018While some followers of Fox News discounted the research findings.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders is no stranger to scrutiny from the press, but it’s likely she wasn’t expecting so much of it from the Trump administration allies at Fox News.Nonetheless,Fox & Friendshost Steve Doocy called out Sanders for a false statement she made on immigration.Watch: Fox host @SteveDoocy accidentally shoots down Sanders lie. After months of insisting Democrats blocked immigration deal, Sanders concedes it was Trump. pic.twitter.com/SOGEXai7q9— Tommy Christopher (@tommyxtopher) October 31, 2018When asked about Trump’s intention to attempt to repeal birth right citizenship through executive order, Sanders did what she does best: blame the Democrats:“Let’s not forget…why we’re even here at all. That’s because the failure of congress – Democrats in congress actually – to do their job. And again the president is going to take whatever powers he has to protect our borders and to protect our country.”That’s when Doocy chimed in:“Sarah, you remember – it was a number of months back – where the president and Chuck Schumer, it sounded like they came pretty close to a deal. Chuck said, ‘Y’know what, I’ll give you the money for the wall, Mr. President, I just want the DREAMers to be able to stay in the United States. And the president (from stories we’ve heard) said ‘I want more. No.’ Was that a mistake not to take that deal at that point?”This false statement from the Trump administration has been pushed since at least February, when Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) entered negotiations with the president to reach a consensus on an immigration bill, on the condition that the DREAMers – undocumented Americans brought to this country as young children – would be permitted to stay in the country. The senate had nearly reached a deal that satisfied both parties only for it to be rejected by the president.He continues to blame Democrats for holding up immigration reform.The United States has been spending Billions of Dollars a year on Illegal Immigration. This will not continue. Democrats must give us the votes to pass strong (but fair) laws. If not, we will be forced to play a much tougher hand.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 26, 2018Americans on Twitter have been calling out that narrative for months.Funny how Democrats are holding you up on passing immigration reform when you are celebrating a Kavanaugh win without a single Democrat vote.. Something doesn't sound accurate— Stand For Justice (@StandForHonesty) October 27, 2018Republicans control house and senate. You have enough votes in your own party to pass immigration. The problem is your party is split into 3 groups that cant agree on anything other than making the rich richer. We are awake Donald we know where accountability lies— Trek3871 (@Trek3871D) October 27, 2018How Can @NPR repeat Sarah Sanders's quote that Democrats are holding up immigration reform in Congress without noting that Republicans control both houses right now?— Annie Gabillet (@anniegabillet) October 31, 2018Ahh so there it is. Hes holding these kids hostage until Democrats give him the votes to pass the other immigration bullshit he spews. People that voted for Trump – you get to wake up with that for the rest of your life. Pathetic. https://t.co/Ln6nXlbJ3P— asst mgr at space force (@rjlawson07) June 19, 2018WHEN WILL TRUMP'S DAILY LIES HAVE CONSEQUENCES?Today, Trump wrongly accused Democrats of holding up immigration reform in Congress to the benefit of gang members and drug cartels. He also lied when he said Democrats were the cause of separating families at the border. pic.twitter.com/bqirKgUoGS— Roger Lee (@RogerLeeDC) June 18, 2018Donald Trump’s most recent attack on immigration – legal and illegal – are poised to keep the claim alive.	Liberal
Conservative pundit Tomi Lahren is dressing up as comedian Kathy Griffin for Halloween, mocking Griffin’s now infamous photo shoot in which she posed with a prop resembling President Donald Trump’s decapitated head.Lahren posted a picture to social media of herself in costume, captioned it “Trump Derangement Syndrome,” and tagged Griffin.Trump Derangement Syndrome. Happy Halloween @kathygriffin pic.twitter.com/MvpRYFVrFj— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) October 31, 2018The photograph was clearly meant to provoke Griffin, whose original shoot is featured below.Lahren also posted the picture to Instagram.He ruined me. Sometimes I do things and you may wonder, Kathy, where is your head at? Well folks, Im taking matters into my own hands, she wrote, in part.Griffin soon responded, calling Lahren a “dumb, racist, and talentless hack.”Gosh you are just so original @TomiLahren! I thought images like this one incite violence! At least thats what you and your colleagues at @FoxNews have told me for the past year and a half. Im busy on tour right now or Id dress up as you: a dumb, racist, and talentless hack. https://t.co/GCR8C2vYkA— Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) October 31, 2018“I thought images like this one incite violence!” Griffin wrote, a reference to much of the criticism she received from Lahren and other conservatives for her protest against the president.Lahren’s soon fired back.Youre right Kathy, if I was trying to impersonate you I should have worn the clown mask instead. Thats my bad! Happy Halloween! Xoxo https://t.co/LLacLMXzRY— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) October 31, 2018If all of this sounds childish, consider that the two women have a history of sparring.In May 2017, Griffinposted a video of herself holding a prop meant to resemble President Trump’s severed head.“I caption this ‘there was blood coming out of his eyes, blood coming out of his…wherever,” she wrote at the time, referencing a past comment Trump made about former Fox News anchorwoman Megyn Kelly.Griffin was savaged for the image, and several members of the Trump family criticized her. Soon afterward, she removed the photo from her social media accounts and asked for forgiveness. The backlash cost Griffin marketing deals and her spot on CNN’s New Year’s Eve broadcast with Anderson Cooper. The FBI and Secret Service investigated her to determine if she was, infact, athreat to the president. In the fall of 2017, Griffin retracted her apology.I didnt commit a crime, she would later tell The Hollywood Reporter. I didnt rape anybody. I didnt assault anybody. I didnt get a DUI. I mean, my God, there are celebrities that fucking kill people.	Liberal
Retiring U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) is pushing back against President Donald Trump’s threat to end birthright citizenship with an executive order.Trump “obviously cannot do that,”Ryan toldKentucky talk radio station WVLK in an interview on Tuesday.You cannot end birthright citizenship with an executive order,” Ryan said. “As a conservative, Im a believer in following the plain text of the Constitution, and I think in this case the 14th Amendment is pretty clear, and that would involve a very, very lengthy constitutional process. But where we obviously totally agree with the president is getting at the root issue here, which is unchecked illegal immigration.On Wednesday, Trump fired back at Ryan, whom the president thinks “should be “focusing on holding the majority rather than giving his opinions on Birthright Citizenship, something he knows nothing about!”Paul Ryan should be focusing on holding the Majority rather than giving his opinions on Birthright Citizenship, something he knows nothing about! Our new Republican Majority will work on this, Closing the Immigration Loopholes and Securing our Border!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018Those that oppose the president begrudgingly found themselves coming to Ryan’s defense, but they made some good points.Ryan certainly knows more about it than Trump.Considering that he came from a family of lawyers & politicians, & was educated in Poli Sci, spending virtually his entire career in politics, I'm pretty sure he'd know better than you. Btw, FUCK YOU for making me defend Paul Ryan!— Tammy Veretto-Stager (@HunnyCayx124) October 31, 2018Paul Ryan knows nothing about it?  But you, a second rate television personality are oh so informed and educated?—  .  (@Alexandra89052) October 31, 2018Speaker Ryan knows more about the Constitution than you can lie about.— Lt.Dan (@LtDan53145499) October 31, 2018Yeah, I guess you have more knowledge on this issue, just like you know more than the Generals do. It's amazing how smart you are and how fooled those who support you are. And when you fail at this, blame others as you're so good at doing.— America's Flyboys (@amflyboys) October 31, 2018Not a Ryan fan either, but he has been in congress for nearly 20 years, and likely has a bit more of a clue about what is and is not possible than someone who has made a lifetime career of being a con man.— Rebecca Mades Dana (@rlmades) October 31, 2018Not a Paul Ryan fan by any stretch but I'm guessing his dog knows more about Constitutional Law than Trump.— Turbo (@TurboResists) October 31, 2018He's not my favorite, but Paul Ryan seems way more intelligent than you are about such matters — and in general.— Diane Smith (@TheDiane0905) October 31, 2018Others pointed out the president’s hypocrisy on how he approaches constitutional amendments; namely, why is the 14th Amendment subject to change while the 2nd isn’t?So it's OK to attack the 14th Amendment but not the 2nd?— Wayne Pardo (@moustasch1) October 31, 2018The constitution is not a loophole, you dope.— LiDu (@lisa_dubbert) October 31, 2018Trump, as president, does not have the power to change the Constitution.You dont have the authority to unilaterally change the constitution. Not one single word in it.— Harvey Cottrell (@harvey_cottrell) October 31, 2018Though one person asked an awkward question:You gonna take Barron's away?— Fred Harding (@OPCGhost) October 31, 2018Also breaking from the president, albeit less blatantly, was Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-TX), who said birthright citizenship is“a symptom of a bigger problem. And my position on immigration is pretty simple: legal immigration is good, illegal immigration is bad.”Cornyn believes the solution lies with Congress.	Liberal
On Tuesday, mere days after the horrendous and tragic shooting at Tree of Life Synagogue, which took the lives of 11 people and whose attack is believed to be motivated by antisemitism, President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump arrived in Pittsburgh to meet with members of the community and pay their condolences.A day later, the president tweeted a White House video showing the first couple along with daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law Jared Kushner (both presidential advisors as well) talking with law enforcement officers and temple members.The video was set to mournful music – a marked contrast against the signature tactlessness Trump displayed to accompany the tweet.Rather than acknowledging the lives lost or that the perpetrator is believed to have acted on white nationalist principles shared and spread by many in Trump’s administration, the president used the “very sad and solemn day” to take an all-too-familiar swipe at the media.Melania and I were treated very nicely yesterday in Pittsburgh. The Office of the President was shown great respect on a very sad & solemn day. We were treated so warmly. Small protest was not seen by us, staged far away. The Fake News stories were just the opposite-Disgraceful! pic.twitter.com/9B9HgCF1G9— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018However, the media’s coverage was widely accurate. The protest amassed a huge amount of people and took place only a block away from the synagogue.Americans pointed this out.On very short notice thousands protested. Apparently so did local and national officials. pic.twitter.com/KOSnh3oWcc— Lynne Stambaugh (@stressedoutru) October 31, 2018https://t.co/WB2OlG32EL— Lt.Evil Ripley#naked tweeter (@Nostromo147) October 31, 2018The protests that we saw were not all that small. Several of them. Didn't appear that most people wanted you there at all. Reported that your motorcade had to be turned around and rerouted. None of this was fake except you and your fake tweets. Why did you delete the last one?— Desert Time Traveler (@Rtn4452Randy) October 31, 2018Nor were they here for Donald Trump’s self-absorption."Oh, and *I* get to use this 'sad and solemn occasion' to take another gratuitous shot at the FREE PRESS, too! They need to be SHUT DOWN, because only *I* speak the truth and only what *I* say MATTERS! EVERYBODY IS LYING BUT MEEE!"— Charles H Norman (@dovnorman18) October 31, 2018Im so relieved.I was so worried that Don & Melania wouldnt be comfortable and honored enough. I thought to myself This thing, this thing with Trump and the murdered Jews, its just so unfair to Trump. Now hes taken that load off my mind with his brave little man tweet.— diane #ForAll straub (@didikins4life) October 31, 2018No thought for the victims? the first responders? the families? a grieving community? a grieving nation?— Mia Farrow (@MiaFarrow) October 31, 2018No one  from either party wanted to accompany you there or even be seen with you. Knowing that it was your words of hate and fear that triggered the murders of those in Pittsburgh. #Shame.— Bruno Amato (@BrunoAmato_1) October 31, 2018While the video may have attempted to paint Trump as presidential in the face of a national tragedy, it should be noted that many of those directly affected by the shooting did not want him there.	Liberal
In an appearance on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi opened her remarks with a bold prediction for the 2018 midterms. But not everyone thought the statement was a good idea.After welcoming California Democrat Pelosi to the program, host Stephen Colbert asked how she felt about the next 6 days leading up to Tuesday’s midterms. Pelosi responded:“Let me say this: Up until today, I would have said if the election were held today, we will win.”Colbert interjected to ask what changed. Pelosi replied:“Now Im saying is, we will win, we will win, we will win.”But Colbert responded:“Please dont say that. Do you want to say that on Hillarys fireworks barge that she canceled? Please don’t say that.”Colbert later made the Catholic Sign of the Cross gesture as Pelosi continued to predict a Democratic victory to retake the House on Tuesday, November 6, 2018. He then said:“I feel like I should sacrifice a goat or something to take the hex off what you just said.”Watch the full interview here.Colbert referenced the Victory predicted in 2016 for Hillary Clinton in 2016, who did win the popular vote by several million, but ultimately lost the electoral vote.When Fox News shared Pelosi’s prediction, many of their followers raised the same issue.Pelosi predicts Dems ‘will win’ the House, as Colbert pleads not to jinx it (via @brookefoxnews) https://t.co/LqeO68vMr9 Fox News (@FoxNews) October 31, 2018Lol. In 2016 she said “Trump will not be the president, you can take that to the bank” JR (@JR29006092) October 31, 2018She lost her memories! We can Remind her 2016 by this midterm! Tam nguyen (@Bachlong007) October 31, 2018You will soon join HRC in the blame game! RED TSUNAMI warning! Time to hunker down & zip your lip! Ken LeBeau (@klebeau41) October 31, 2018While other Fox News fans had other things to say on the subject.Sad that no late night TV shows will air Republicans on their little shows, oh well, that gives me more time to watch Fox News Jeff kenney (@Millhead007) October 31, 2018I early voted yesterday not one Democrat got my vote I used to be independent no more Gary Hall (@GaryHal16649949) October 31, 2018It will be a happy day in HELL If Democrats win, as Democrats are the followers of Satanism and yes we will be living in HELL, blood in the streets as the Democrat supporters have stated. jfitz (@jfitz43525739) October 31, 2018Delusional!Hilary RUINED the @DNC and not until she takes to retirement and SILENCE will anyone have a voice in that party, now in chaos. Same with Obama and his HORRIBLE record as a #POTUS.The election will be another red wave. ( I am NOT a US citizen, WE SEE IT here.) ATTENTION-Paid (@ATTENTIONPaid9) October 31, 2018Sounds like Pelosi has an inside fix maybe voter fraud, maybe do some investigation? Might be a great story Fox ! #Trump2016 (@bla_cksmith73) October 31, 2018IT LOOKS LIKE THE REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO WIN. AM. PEOPLE ARE FED UP WITH PELOSI AND SCHUMER PROTEST AND OBSTRUCTIONISTS DEMOCRATS. franksteinmetz (@frankpsteinmetz) October 31, 2018She just wants attention, her attention should be toward our boarders! FlipIt (@SnipeHole) October 31, 2018As well as this reaction from what appears to be, based on his Twitter account, a White man.pic.twitter.com/GjRZc0rqHV John Chalekson (HedgeFund Ghost)™?? (@hedgefund_ghost) October 31, 2018Elsewhere, people urged caution against predictions of victory…	Liberal
The National Rifle Association on Tuesday posted a tweet attacking three Jewish Democratic donors in a last-minute push before the midterms, and social media is fighting back.“Another billionaire is pumping unlimited money into electing anti-gun lawmakers,” the organization wrote. “Notorious anti-gunner George Soros joins anti-gun billionaires Steyer and Bloomberg. There is no end to how much theyll pay to push their elitist agenda on Americans.”Another billionaire is pumping unlimited money into electing anti-gun lawmakers. Notorious anti-gunner George Soros joins anti-gun billionaires Steyer and Bloomberg. There is no end to how much theyll pay to push their elitist agenda on Americans. https://t.co/jxFmnc802s— NRA (@NRA) October 31, 2018The NRA’s tweet comes just four days after a gunman charged into Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and opened fire, killing 11 Jewish worshippers in the worst targeting of American Jews in history.Thus, Twitter erupted with anger at the NRA for its insensitive and tone-deaf tweet.How many anti-semitic dogwhistles can you guys fit in one tweet?— Need To Impeach (@Need2Impeach) October 31, 2018How many dogwhistles? Three people plus the term “elitist” which is code for Jews, so at least four.Gosh I wonder what those three names have in common. Nice dog whistle.— Rachel C (@chertky) October 31, 2018Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter Jaime was murdered in Parkland, Florida in February, lauded “any billionaire helping to defeat the dangerous and horribly antisemitic NRA.”To any billionaire helping to defeat the dangerous and horribly anti semitic NRA, THANK YOU for what you do and for your patriotism to this country.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) October 31, 2018Guttenberg was not the only activist to blast the NRA for targeting Jews while the wounds of last weekend’s shooting are still raw.You suuuure you want to do the anti-Semitic thing as a gun-advocacy group right now? Is that your best move after last weekend?— Sleeping Giants (@slpng_giants) October 31, 2018Many people shared this same sentiment.Um, the largest massacre of Jews was Saturday, why not take a little anti-semitism break?— Molly JongFast (@MollyJongFast) October 31, 2018Always knew your crowd is Anti-Semitic and this confirms it. How sick that you post this right after the slaughter in #Pittsburgh. @tedcruz @GOP @JohnCornyn @senatemajldr Of course no Republican will say anything. Cowards.— Dist 5 Coalition (@Dist_5) October 31, 2018Yes hello hi! Over here! Maybe you shouldn't tell your armed fans they are under attack by three prominent Jewish men three days after the worst anti-Semitic terrorism in American history and a week after 2 of them got bombs in the mail.— Bethania Palma (@bethaniapalma) October 31, 2018Stupid and evil? You decide.Attacking Jews for trying to advocate for gun control, days after Jews are killed in a horrific gun massacre? You are very, very stupid and very, very evil.— Nick de Semlyen (@NickdeSemlyen) October 31, 2018Oof.anyway great to see y'all are adding anti-semitism to the many reasons your organization needs an earth-salting— Midnight Jon  (@MidnightJon) October 31, 2018Others noted that the NRA has become little more than a front for right-wing causes.Stop pretending you represent gun owners. You never got more than 20% of us in your ranks. You're nothing more than a money laundering front for the GOP at this point.— The Mad Sailor (@cyniczenmaster) October 31, 2018In his defense, he doesn't profit off of the mass murder of American citizens like you do, so I'm willing to give him the benefit of a doubt.— Scott E Watson (@LoonyLiberalHah) October 31, 2018You're one of the biggest lobbying groups in America. Seems ironic that you pigs are about to be lined up before a firing squad for treason.— Jocelyn Plums (@ColoradoUgly) October 31, 2018Billionaire Koch brothers buying Trump and the GOP to get rid of healthcare, Social Security and Medicare. #VoteBlueToSaveAmerica from the Corrupt Koch Brothers.— DrainTheTrumps (@lifeisbeautio) October 31, 2018Meanwhile, you're laundering Russian money through your organization and into Republican campaigns.— Jesus Hidalgo Christos (@JesusHCristos) October 31, 2018Money is speech, after all.Hey. Money is Speech. Speak on George.— John McGuirk (@Jauntom) October 31, 2018Did you really believe that Citizens United would only apply to Republican billionaires like the Mercers and Koch brothers?— MC (@mchayden100) October 31, 2018A little more than a week ago, Soros, a Jewish Holocaust survivor and Democratic donor, received a pipe bomb in the mail from a radicalized supporter of President Donald Trump. Tom Steyer, a Jewish billionaire and supporter of liberal causes, was also sent an explosive device by the same culprit.At least welve other high-profile Democrats were also targeted in the largest attempted mass-assassination in American history, and as many as 100 people were listed as potential targets.All three men are major players among the moneyed liberal base. Those opposed to the NRA were glad to see these men refusing to back down.	Liberal
Representative Steve Stivers,the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, sharply rebuked fellow Congressman Steve King for his white nationalist rhetoric, saying King’s “recent comments, actions, and retweets are completely inappropriate.”Congressman Steve Kings recent comments, actions, and retweets are completely inappropriate. We must stand up against white supremacy and hate in all forms, and I strongly condemn this behavior.— Steve Stivers (@RepSteveStivers) October 30, 2018King later issued a response of his own, though his tweet did not appear to directly address Stivers’s criticisms. Instead, he suggested that recent attacks against him “are orchestrated by nasty, desperate, and dishonest fake news.”King Response pic.twitter.com/H8iXI3cM1x— Steve King (@SteveKingIA) October 30, 2018A source familiar with Stivers’s line of thinking said Stivers “could not stay silent after he’d been briefed onracially charged comments made recently by his colleague, whose hardline views on immigration policy are well known.The NRCC won’t support King’s candidacy, according to Matt Gorman, the groups communications director.“The NRCC and Congressman Stivers haven’t been afraid to show moral leadership when the time calls for it, he said during an appearance on Fox News.We believe Congressman King’s words and actions are completely inappropriate and we strongly condemn them. We will not play in his race.King has been on the receiving end of backlash after he decided to endorse Faith Goldy, a white nationalist running in Toronto’s mayoral race, and after he suggested liberal billionaire George Sorosa favorite target among far-right conspiracy theoristswas a part ofthe Great Replacement,” a conspiracy theory which claims there is a “push” toreplace white Europeans with minorities.Most recently, Kingdefended his association with the Freedom Party, a Nazi-linked group in Austria.If they were in America pushing the platform that they push, they would be Republicans, King toldThe Washington Post, at one point asking:What does this diversity bring that we dont already have?King faces Democratic challenger J.D. Scholten in Iowa’s 4th District, a part of the state whichvoted for President Donald Trump by 27 percentage points in 2016. Scholten himself applauded Stivers for calling out King’s recent behavior.Last week I issued a challenge for at least one Republican elected official to condemn @SteveKingIA's recent behavior. I applaud @RepSteveStivers, Chair of the NRCC. Respect. #CountryOverParty https://t.co/KCKTBlEDhr— J.D. Scholten (@Scholten4Iowa) October 30, 2018Iowa recently eliminated straight-ticket voting “which means King won’t get votes from people who simply circle the Republican line; voters will have to affirmatively choose him,” according to a CNN report.The Sioux City Journal’s editorial board recently endorsed Scholten, writing:“King earlier this month put himself — and, by extension, the rest of the district — in an unflattering spotlight with a tweet in support of a candidate for mayor of Toronto described in published reports as a ‘white nationalist’ or ‘white supremacist.’ That wasn’t the first time King was tied, by his words or actions, to such intolerant ugliness.”	Liberal
Federal Express is cutting ties with the National Rifle Association, the company announced on Tuesday, ending a discount partnership program for businesses that are members of the nation’s largest gun lobby.The $56 billion logistics giant confirmed to Reuter’s BreakingViews that it will no longer offer discounts to business members of the NRA as of November 4, 2018. The company claimed the NRA didn’t bring in enough business to justify continuing the arrangement.The move “suggests the NRA no longer has the economic clout to inspire fear in the corporate world,” John Foley of BreakingViews reported on Tuesday.Twitter exploded with gun control advocates voicing their excitement over FedEx’s decision.Parkland student survivor David Hogg thanked FedEx for “ending its relationship with the NRA.”Thank you @FedEx for taking this bold step by ending your relationship with the NRA— Vote November 6th (@davidhogg111) October 30, 2018Fed EX pulled through for us #theyoungpeoplewillwin— Vote November 6th (@ReadySetRock75) October 30, 2018Sorry typo…meant AR-15— mared (@mare949) October 30, 2018Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter Jaime was murdered at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, said he felt “overwhelmed that they have decided to finally” drop their partnership with the NRA.WOW!!!  This is a big deal.  FEDEX just ended its relationship with the NRA.  They refused to do this after the Parkland shooting, but I am overwhelmed that they have decided to finally do this.  Thank you FEDEX.https://t.co/32UKkactVt— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) October 30, 2018Great news. It is about time,  guess better late than never. Thank you @fred_guttenberg  for keeping up this fight. You are a true Patriot.— Donna Galindo (@donnajgalindo) October 30, 2018Igor Volsky, the Executive Director of Guns Down, a gun control non-profit, tweeted that the announcement from FedEx heralds a decline in the NRA’s power.Proof that @NRA is losing power: 1. Its political spending is  2. Its membership dues are 3. Its approval rating 4. At least 29 companies – including @FedEx – have ended their business relationships with the gun lobby! https://t.co/tWhu52OUX9— igorvolsky (@igorvolsky) October 30, 2018.@FedEx has joined at least 40 other companies that have realized that their ties to @NRA are not more important than American lives, and that working with the gun lobby undermines our shared American values. https://t.co/CWa0aMhyOj— igorvolsky (@igorvolsky) October 30, 2018VICTORY: After 500,000 Americans signed a petition urging FedEx to stop providing discounts to @NRA members, @FedEX announces that it is ending its relationship with the gun lobby: https://t.co/lzSIAlRGfo— GunsDown (@gunsdownamerica) October 30, 2018.@FedEx, your decision to join the growing number of companies to break ties with the @NRA is another indication that Americans no longer buy into the NRA's message. Theyre ready to support bold policies that can help build a future with fewer guns. pic.twitter.com/Fmw59jSMQE— GunsDown (@gunsdownamerica) October 30, 2018Actor and activist John Leguizamo said he’s going to “FedEx all day long.”Gonna  fedex all day long!!! https://t.co/uTn4OumKSs— John Leguizamo (@JohnLeguizamo) October 30, 2018Activist Shannon Watts also lauded the news.BREAKING: In the wake of the mass shooting in a Pittsburgh synagogue, FedEx is ending a program that offers discounts for business members of the @NRA. The move suggests "the NRA no longer has the clout to frighten the corporate world." https://t.co/Ygly3GlYJN— Shannon Watts (@shannonrwatts) October 30, 2018“The tides are turning.” It sure seems that way. Twitter flooded with happy reactions.Wow, this is actually surprisingFedEx stood by the NRA more than any other company during the #BoycottNRA movement the tides are turning. https://t.co/c3SbXScuEl— William LeGate (@williamlegate) October 30, 2018Update: It's working.https://t.co/6kFShQTK0o— National School Walkout (@schoolwalkoutUS) October 30, 2018That is very pleasant news!— Guido Motshagen (@jGuidoM_twit) October 30, 2018Good news!— Christine (@luvauntyruth) October 30, 2018WHAT??????  THAT just made my DAY!!!!! Thank You @FedEx!!!— Beth (@norasfan) October 30, 2018Awesomeness!!! Way to go @FedEx !— JR (@janaberry52) October 30, 2018 pic.twitter.com/HpYJO2d91v— SoporificCRNA (@SoporificANES) October 30, 2018Thank you FedEx ending relationship with NRA.— Susan Santry (@SusanSantry1) October 30, 2018Better late than never, @Fedex pic.twitter.com/xQVoWquG1O— AKSARBENT (@aksarbent) October 30, 2018FedEx spokesman Jim McCluskey said in a statement toThinkProgress on Tuesday that the decision had any specific event and that it is part of a larger internal policy shift which will affect FedEx’s relationships with more than 100 companies.	Liberal
The couch at Fox News’Fox & Friends is usually a safe space for President Donald Trump and members of his administration and family. The Trump administration can rely on the hosts to back whatever is said without any pushback or fact-checking.But occasionally, even the hosts of Fox & Friends feel they need to take the President to task.Tuesday morning, reporting from outside instead of their usual studio set, Brian Kilmeadewho together with Ainsley Earhardt and Steve Doocy make up the trio of hostsfinally offered a rebuttal to Trump’s anti-press rhetoric.Fox & Friends showed a clip of an interview with Trump conducted by Laura Ingraham where the President defended his attacks on the media in the wake of one of his supporters sending pipe bombs to his critics, including some in the media.After the clip, Kilmeade stated:“I really wish he would lose that term. It doesnt help anybody, it doesnt push back on the media that he wants to push back on and I think it gets too many other people aligned, it gets shrapnel with that statement because the press isnt the enemy of the people.”Co-host Steve Doocy then gave the President an excuse for his anti-First Amendment rhetoric, saying:“Well I think he probably feels like they are not doing him any favors and so he doesnt like them ultimately.”But then even Doocy added:“But, are they the enemy of the people? I dont think so, either.”Watch the exchange here.When I say the enemy of the people Im talking about the fake news -President Trump pic.twitter.com/rRsEqFSNKs FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) October 30, 2018After sharing the segment on their own Twitter feed, Fox & Friends got some pushback from their fans. Most parroted the President’s own rhetoric.The media is soooo fake and so left its ridiculous and yes, fake news that lies and distorts the truth is the enemy of the people. CNN is so politicized and fake its ridiculous and the others are not far behind. @realDonaldTrump Michael Guy (@RealMichaelGuy) October 30, 2018We the people voted for President Trump. We expect to turn on our tvs and get the truth in news. We want to hear about everything the Presidents is doing for Americas safety and prosperity. CNN, MSNBC, NBC, ABC, CBS, do not report truth. They speak hate and lies Laurie Firestone (@musiclsunshine) October 30, 2018It is the Democratic way to scare people into voting for them and the put the blame on President Trump the mainstream media has gone completely nuts they are deranged and can’t even see what’s right in front of their eyes vote Republican will be better off Outdoorsman 38 (@NoJohnson5) October 30, 2018Of course you dont think so because you are the media and youre bias since you work in that field. Media is very powerful and it can manipulate many of people and rally them up against what that company wants to rally them up on. Bob C. Buckley Jr. (@tuscanybuilders) October 30, 2018However when asked by others to provide examples of so-called fake news…	Liberal
Stacey Abrams, the Democratic candidate for Georgia governor, smacked down Meghan McCain onThe View Tuesday after McCain tried to lob a “gotcha” question at Abrams over her stance on gun rights.McCain asked Abrams if she supported banning the AR-15, which has been the weapon of choice in dozens of mass shootings in the United States. Most recently, an AR-15 was wielded by a gunman who stormed into a Pittsburgh synagogue on Saturday, killing 11 Jewish worshippers.Im not anti-gun. My great-grandmother taught me how to shoot when I was growing up in Mississippi. I like trap shooting, I like target shooting,” Abrams replied. I dont hunt because I mostly eat chicken and that seems mean, Abrams joked.Abrams continued, adding that most responsible gun owners understand that they have the responsibility for the firearms, and making sure that only responsible people have those firearms.Abrams said she supports “a background check” and a “mandatory 3-day waiting period” for firearms purchases, and that she believes “those who commit domestic violence and stalking should not have access to weapons.”Abrams went on to say that “weapons of mass destruction” such as the AR-15 do not belong “in civilian hands.”Following thunderous applause, Abrams was challenged by McCain on how she would implement a ban on AR-15s.“Would you round them up?” McCain asked.“We have had a ban on assault weapons before in the United States and I think that we should do it again,” Abrams fired back. “I think that there has to be a conversation of how it’s accomplished,” she added, “because we have to recognize that this is a national conversation.”Abrams concluded by saying she supports the Second Amendment as “the law of the land” and that it’s possible to both “believe in responsible gun ownership” and support limits on the types of arms civilians are able to buy.“When you can’t go into a synagogue or a church, or a school, or a movie theater without fear for your life,” Abrams charged, “there is something wrong with our system of gun ownership and we have to fix it.”Watch the full segment below:Twitter took notice of McCain’s final reply, “I appreciate your honesty, why you want to ban it,” as a sign that McCain wasn’t really listening. Many saw it as disrespectful.I love Meghan McCains last sentence, while everyone was clapping…….I appreciate your honesty, why you want to ban it.  She wasnt listening to a word Stacey Abrams said. She just wanted to say as many times as she could, that Abrams wants to ban them. She is disgusting.— Jen (@Flick_68) October 30, 2018Wow, Meghan McCain really can't let go of her single talking point. On the plus, the monochrome backdrop of "You're taking our guns" really makes Abrams' thoughtful, through discourse pop. https://t.co/ivOCHGygL9— Persist! (@brainmist) October 30, 2018https://twitter.com/Mistress_Jan/status/1057341665596334082Meghan McCain is so overmatched by Stacey Abrams. #VoteBlueToEndThisNightmare— saydiesiam (@saydiesiamy) October 30, 2018Look how fricken condescending  Meghan McCain is acting. Ohh, I can't stand her ass. Great response from Stacey Abrams though. My youngest daughter voted for her yesterday. https://t.co/uT5CbNV46T— Leaundra  Ross (@LeaundraRoss) October 30, 2018Does McCain think she's "outsmarting" Abrams by using obviously decisive rhetoric?She sounds patronizing af — Ran Chu (@MadwitTY) October 30, 2018Because McCain wasn't listening. She was just waiting for Abrams to finish so she could regurgitate a standard NRA talking point. McCain wasn't interested in having an adult conversation.— Jerry Bailey (@ozarkbailey) October 30, 2018Did McCain try to slip in there "I know you want to ban it?" even though Abrams just said she didn't want to ban all guns? Or did I mishear that?— Julia Bricklin (@BricklinJulia) October 30, 2018And McCains repetition of I appreciate your honesty is disgusting. Shes employing a tactic that suggests Abrams was coming clean, or generally is untruthful— Beemus (@BeemusWhatsThis) October 30, 2018The overwhelming consensus on social media is that Abrams nailed her response.	Liberal
Two years after social media platforms were exploited by foreign actors to manipulate the 2016 presidential election, all eyes are on Facebook and Twitter to see how the platforms will rise to the task of filtering out fake news, conspiracy theories, and “bots.”With the launch of its midterm page today, it looks like Twitter is less than prepared.Though the premise of the page – compiling tweets from candidates, reporters, and news organizations regarding the upcoming 2018 midterms – is a necessary effort, a significant amount of known partisan “journalists” and peddlers of conspiracy theories were featured on the page’s feed of latest tweets within minutes of its launch.Such a prominent display of these misleading or outright false stories in a political climate with many close races across the country could impact voters everywhere.Eagle-eyed viewers spotted these posts and called Twitter out.And two seconds in: Okeefe Jim HoftThe kings of fake news featured right in twitters midterms coverage pic.twitter.com/7P7BnmRMO4— Josh Russell (@josh_emerson) October 30, 2018This morning Twitter rolled out its new midterm elections events page and its already surfacing false news and seemingly automated/bot/spam accounts https://t.co/EuUVdndFBU pic.twitter.com/A2C4TnyPy3— Charlie Warzel (@cwarzel) October 30, 2018The twitter midterm feed is garbage to start of with we have actual fake news pic.twitter.com/0VbGaEq834— JO(scary)KE (@JO_clever_KE) October 30, 2018Satire sites too pic.twitter.com/ikz1JkU0uI— JO(scary)KE (@JO_clever_KE) October 30, 2018Twitter launches new tool to track midterm elections featuring curated tweets from… conspiracy theorists https://t.co/8Gz0DaU6E3— Ryan Mac (@RMac18) October 30, 2018how are they so bad at this pic.twitter.com/9QU3rK3xrw— Ryan Mac (@RMac18) October 30, 2018Some of the tweets featured were from James O’Keefe, a far-right activist and founder of the anti-media group Project Veritas. O’Keefe often resorts to deception in order to entrap news organizations into producing false stories, having failed in his attempts to do so withThe Washington PostOther tweets featured were by far-right conspiracy theorist Dinesh D’Souza, who pled guilty to campaign finance fraud and was ordered to serve five years’ probation before being granted a full pardon by President Donald Trump.Other so-called journalists like JackPosobiec, who spread the false story that Hillary Clinton operated a child sex trafficking ring from the basement of a pizza shop that didn’t have a basement, were also featured. The widespread belief of the Pizzagate conspiracy theory resulted in one of its believers showing up to the shop with a gun.Some of the sites linked weren’t even news sites, but comedic satire sites like Reductress.Amidst fears that social media would again be exploited to influence a crucial election, Americans were quick to speak out.	Liberal
Vice President Mike Pence drew heavy criticism Monday for a campaign rally appearance in Michigan. The rally began with a prayer from aMessianic rabbi.Messianic Judaism believes Jesus is the messiah and believes the New Testament is an extension of the Torah. However the Jews for Jesus sectas they often bill themselveslacks recognition as Jewish by mainstream Judaism in the United States or the supreme spiritual authority for Judaism in Israel, the Chief Rabbinate.Further, Jews pointed out the rabbi broke with Jewish tradition by not beginning with a prayer for the dead in remembrance of the 11 people murdered at Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. Instead, Rabbi Loren Jacobs prayed for a list of Republican candidates.Watch his opening prayer here.In response to antisemitic white nationalist attack, Vice President Mike Pence opens campaign event with a Christian Rabbi. pic.twitter.com/5iMLx1V3NH Rafael Shimunov ?? (@rafaelshimunov) October 30, 2018He begins by promoting that people in power are ordained by Jesus to wield power. Rafael Shimunov ?? (@rafaelshimunov) October 30, 2018Then, rather than praying for the victims and survivors of the Pittsburgh synagogue attack, Mike Pence’s Christian Rabbi prays –by name– for each Republican candidate on a list given to him. pic.twitter.com/nZ5Vj6MQs8 Rafael Shimunov ?? (@rafaelshimunov) October 30, 2018Normally, a Rabbi would open with Kaddish, a prayer for the dead – and list names of those taken. And blessings to the community at risk, Jews, immigrants, etc. Here, it is instead a prayer for Republican candidates to win on November 6 and a blessing for Mike Pence. Rafael Shimunov ?? (@rafaelshimunov) October 30, 2018It was only after being invited back on stage by the Vice President, who stated he thought it would be good to have Jacobs pray for the victims of the Pittsburgh mass shooting, that Jacobs mentioned or prayed for the 11 people murdered in an antisemitic attack.But Jacobs again invoked the Christian messiah to pray for the murdered Jews which further angered people. Watch his prayer here.So, after the event, Pence was forced to bring the “Rabbi” out to actually pray for #TreeOfLife victims and not just Republican candidate elections. He did. To Jesus Christ. And @VP Mike Pence thanked him while pushing him off stage. pic.twitter.com/MwLygXX0Uj Rafael Shimunov ?? (@rafaelshimunov) October 30, 2018In response to the backlash, one of the Republican candidates, Lena Epstein, took full responsibility for inviting Rabbi Loren Jacobs to the rally and asking him to start the event with a prayer. Epstein then attacked the critics for “religious intolerance.”Statement on Jewish Faith and Religious Tolerance: pic.twitter.com/QUxYG3ZIh5 Lena Epstein (@LenaEpstein) October 30, 2018Vice President Mike Pence’s spokespeople also blamed Epstein and disavowed any responsibility. His spokesman, Jarrod Agen, stated:“We often have ecumenical prayers at the beginning of events that aren’t an endorsement of any particular faith.”Agen added that Pence heard Jacobs speak at the beginning of the rally and invited him back onstage “so so the entire audience could hear him.”However critics did not accept the Vice President’s explanation. They called the choice by the self-described Evangelical Christian a distinct message.	Liberal
According to the latest Gallup poll, President Donald Trump’s approval rating dropped from 44 percent to 40 percent during the week ending October 28, in the wake of his response to a period of pre-midterm violence including a series of mail-bombs to prominent Trump critics and a mass shooting at a Pittsburgh synagogue.Gallup: Trump weekly job approval plummets eight net points, falling to 40-54 (was 44-50 last week). pic.twitter.com/a6I0nmP1yd— Josh Jordan (@NumbersMuncher) October 29, 2018“The last week has been driven by Trump’s response to the mail bombs and Pittsburgh, and now he’s leaning into birthright citizenship,” wrote political correspondent Steve Kornacki, observing that “the tone Trump seems to be closing” the year on is markedly different from “the home stretch” in 2016, after winning the presidential election.The last week has been driven by Trump's response to the mail bombs and Pittsburgh, and now he's leaning into birthright citizenship. His Gallup approval has dropped 4 points and there are new discouraging polls for the GOP this AM. We'll see if this proves a bigger trend, but…— Steve Kornacki (@SteveKornacki) October 30, 2018…it's worth contrasting the tone Trump seems to be closing 18 on with how he played the home stretch in 2016  when (by his standards!) he presented a markedly calmer, more disciplined and reassuring public posture than at any other point in the campaign, and was rewarded: pic.twitter.com/erYajMH8up— Steve Kornacki (@SteveKornacki) October 30, 2018Chris Lu, a formerUnited States Deputy Secretary of Labor, called the poll “a first glimpse into how the public is reacting to Trump’s divisive rhetoric after last week’s violence.”Since Gallup polled through Sunday, this is a first glimpse into how the public is reacting to Trump's divisive rhetoric about last week's violence. @latimes also polled through Sunday and found a 4 point shift to Democratic candidates. https://t.co/izI9WAf8YJ https://t.co/8jwnzQyPmY— Chris Lu (@ChrisLu44) October 29, 2018The latest poll erases the gains Trump made in the previous four weeks. 54 percent of Americans now disapprove of the president’s overall job performance. Trump and Congressional Republicans had enjoyed a boost in support from the confirmation of Associate Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.Latest Gallup poll shows Trumps approval rating down 4% after week in which one of his supporters tried to kill democrats, another supporter successfully killed jews. Hey, thats pretty blunt, but lets tell it like it is. #2018Midterms pic.twitter.com/4zj0BWSbQS— James Wooten (@rantonstupidity) October 30, 2018Trumps Gallup approval rating has reverted to the mean. Its gone back to the very low 40% that hes been consistently near the whole time in office.— Tour (@Toure) October 30, 2018The Galluppoll is based on a survey of roughly 1,500 Americans from Oct. 22through 28. It has a margin of error of 3 percentage points.The president has been largely criticized for his response to these tense events.The president is trying to heal the country, White House counselor Kellyanne Conway told reporterJohn Berman before accusing Berman of cherry picking the presidents words after Berman noted that Trump had referred to a Democrat who received a suspicious package in last weeks attempted pipe bombings a lunatic.But the president quickly proved Conway wrong: He has often characterized the press as the enemy of the people, and he has not let up, launching new attacks from his Twitter account.There is great anger in our Country caused in part by inaccurate, and even fraudulent, reporting of the news, the president said, in part, adding that the press must stop its open & obvious hostility.There is great anger in our Country caused in part by inaccurate, and even fraudulent, reporting of the news. The Fake News Media, the true Enemy of the People, must stop the open & obvious hostility & report the news accurately & fairly. That will do much to put out the flame…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 29, 2018….of Anger and Outrage and we will then be able to bring all sides together in Peace and Harmony. Fake News Must End!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 29, 2018	Liberal
Singer Pharrell Williams has sent President Donald Trump a cease and desist letter demanding the president stop playing any of Williams’ songs at campaign rallies.Williams’ attorney Howard King wrote the cease and desist request which was obtained by the Los Angeles Times on Monday.The letter came after Williams’ “Happy” fromDespicable Me 2was played at a MAGA rally in Murphysboro, Illinois on Saturday just hours after a gunman massacred 11 Jews at Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.King wrote to Trump:On the day of the mass murder of 11 human beings at the hands of a deranged nationalist, you played his song Happy to a crowd at a political event in Indiana. There was nothing happy about the tragedy inflicted upon our country on Saturday and no permission was granted for your use of this song for this purpose.King added that Williams owns the copyright to “Happy” and use of it by Trump amounts to copyright infringement.“Pharrell has not, and will not, grant you permission to publicly perform or otherwise broadcast or disseminate any of his music. The use of ‘Happy’ without permission constitutes copyright infringement.”Twitter’s reaction? “Good.”Excellent!!!!  Nice job Pharrell!!!  Keep on him!— Mary Alice Gordon (@MAG091365) October 30, 2018He won't be happy ! @Pharrell— James Robert Mahan (@MahanJames) October 30, 2018Someone's not happy— Prince (@PrinceYakob) October 30, 2018— Ms. Patsy (@MsPatsyy) October 30, 2018 Love it — Ames (@PositiveChickie) October 30, 2018I wouldn't want him playing any song of mine.— Daniel Heins (@HeinsDan) October 30, 2018Blah.  #Happy— Morning Joe (@MorrningJoe) October 30, 2018"There was nothing 'happy' about the tragedy inflicted upon our country on Saturday and no permission was granted for your use of this song for this purpose," states the letter.Thank you, @Pharrell https://t.co/LQBw4ZqBXV— Karine Jean-Pierre (@K_JeanPierre) October 30, 2018At a rally THE DAY OF THE MURDER OF 11 AMERICANS. There, fixed it for you.— Dr. Genevieve Guenther (@DoctorVive) October 30, 2018So this weekPittsburgh dont want him and said it plainly but he forced himself there anywayNow Pharrell dont want  him using his music but yet he insistsTheres a word for people that dont take NO for an answer— Tellitlikeitis (@avengers831) October 30, 2018There was nothing “happy” about Saturday, but Trump, true to form, decided to make two campaign stops following the largest killing of American Jews in our country’s history.Especially since the only ones "happy" are trump, as he makes millions every day and divides the country even more, and his minions because most don't have the intelligence to know any better. They are too lazy to learn as well…— NitroX (@StumanR) October 30, 2018It’s all about Trump.	Liberal
Fox News Network may be known for stoking the fears of its majority-conservative viewers and bolstering the falsehoods put forth by President Donald Trump, but at least one host is setting the record straight.Shepard Smith assured viewers on his show,Shepard Smith Reporting, that despite the president’s fear mongering, the migrant caravan currently traveling on foot from Central America to the United States is not an “invasion,” nor are they a threat to the nation.Smith said:“The migrants, according to Fox News reporting, are more than two months away – if any of them actually come here. But Tomorrow is one week before the midterm election, which is what all of this is about. There is no invasion. No one is coming to get you. There’s nothing at all to worry about.”Watch the video below:Shep Smith on the migrant caravan: "There is no invasion. No one is coming to get you. There is nothing at all to worry about." pic.twitter.com/4dLmPuZem0— Jon Passantino (@passantino) October 29, 2018By all accounts, Smith is right.The caravan is still around 1,000 miles from the nearest United States border. Even if it does reach the United States, it will do so long after the 2018 midterm elections. Its existence is no outlier either. The last caravan began in April of this year and peaked at about 1,500 people, but by the time it reached the United States, the group had waned to less than 500 people.Twitter hailed Smith for keeping it real.Shep Smith tells the truth https://t.co/MBjMvJr8fD— John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) October 29, 2018Shep Smith gives me hope.— feminist next door (@emrazz) October 30, 2018Shep is a lone beacon of light in a sea of darkness pic.twitter.com/LcZrDTBXvx— MAGIC (@insomniacx29) October 29, 2018Some wondered what the segment must’ve seemed like to a devout Fox News viewer suddenly confronted with facts.I genuinely wonder what Shep Smith's show is like to someone who watches Fox all day. Is it like some weird unsettling dream that they have once a day, but then it passes and everything makes sense again? https://t.co/eulMlmxZ9w— James Poniewozik (@poniewozik) October 29, 2018"Hi, everyone, it's me, Shep Smith here to tell you that everything my colleagues said up until this hour is fear mongering bullshit of the highest order." https://t.co/47fd0FJjt6— John Carpenter's Magg-o-Ween (@maggieserota) October 29, 2018Shep Smiths show serves as a portal that briefly transports viewers from the Fox universe into reality. For those who have Fox on all day, that world — aka reality — must feel like an alien universe, @oliverdarcy says https://t.co/fMVVrzXyGf— Jason Cumming (@jason_cumming) October 30, 2018Despite there being little reason for alarm, the president appears to be swatting a fly with a sledgehammer anyway.	Liberal
President Donald Trump plans to sign an executive orderthat would seek to end the right to U.S. citizenship for children born in the United States to noncitizens.“How ridiculous, we’re the only country in the world where a person comes in, has a baby, and the baby is essentially a citizen of the United States for 85 years with all of those benefits,” the president told Axiosaspart of anHBO seriesset to air this weekend. “It’s ridiculous. It’s ridiculous. And it has to end.”Trump said he has discussed ending birthright citizenship with his legal counsel. He believes the move can be accomplished with executive action; legal scholars, however, disagree.It was always told to me that you needed a constitutional amendment. Guess what? You dont, Trump said.You can definitely do it with an act of Congress. But now theyre saying I can do it just with an executive order.Its in the process. Itll happen… with an executive order.”The president’s comments are largely seen as an attempt to whip up support for Republican candidates ahead of the midterm elections, in which immigration is a key issue for the GOP base. The move earned a harsh rebuke from the American Civil Liberties Union.This is a blatantly unconstitutional attempt to fan the flames of anti-immigrant hatred in the days ahead of the midterms.The 14th Amendments citizenship guarantee is clear. You cant erase the Constitution with an executive order, @realDonaldTrump. https://t.co/8vGkjOlPsE— ACLU (@ACLU) October 30, 2018The National Immigration Law Center condemned Trump’s statements as “a cheap attempt to score political points before next week.”At this point, Trump is throwing a bunch of nationalist immigration policies at a wall and seeing what will stick. We should see this for what it is, a cheap attempt to score political points before next week. Trump may be president, but he isnt above the 14th Amendment. https://t.co/eacwiUC4sM— National Immigration Law Center (@NILC_org) October 30, 2018Others concurred, with some pointing out that executive orders cannot bypass or overturn the Constitution. Trump long criticized his predecessor, Barack Obama, for his use of executive orders.If Trump nullifies the 14th Amendment to eliminate birthright citizenship, none of our rights in the Constitution are secure. We have a dictator whose political party controls all three branches of government with no checks nor balances on his power. This is a national emergency.— Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) October 30, 2018Reality Check: Trump Cant End Birthright Citizenship. Its in the 14th amendment of the constitution. No executive order can overturn the constitution. Full stop.— John Avlon (@JohnAvlon) October 30, 2018Trump is attempting to shift the news cycle away from your local elections and midterms. Do not be fooled. Continue to organize, mobilize and vote. The 14th amendment, a nation of immigrants and #BirthrightCitizenship can be protected by OUR VOTE. Lets make history.— Matt Deitsch (@MattxRed) October 30, 2018The 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution provides that “all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.”The Supreme Court, inUnited States v. Wong Kim Ark, upheld this rule for legal permanent residents. The court has never decided a citizenship case involving an illegal immigrant or a short-term visitor to the United States.Attorney Dan McLaughlin, in a National Review column last month, noted that “A proper originalist interpretation of the U.S. Constitution, as presently written, guarantees American citizenship to those born within our borders, with only a few limited exceptions.”	Liberal
Conservative media guru Matt Drudge made a bombastic return to Twitter on Monday by blasting Fox News for its coverage of last week’s slew of attempted bombings and the mass shooting at a Pittsburgh synagogue over the weekend.In a scathing tweet, Drudgeknocked Fox’sOutnumbered for politicizing the hate-fueled tragedies that have left the nation reeling.“A segment on Fox News this morning where hosts laughed and joked their way through a discussion on political[sic] impact of terror was bizarre,”The Drudge Reportfounder wrote. “Not even 48 hours since blood flowed at synagogue[sic]? Check your soul in the makeup chair!”A segment on Fox News this morning where hosts laughed and joked their way through a discussion on political impact of terror was bizarre. Not even 48 hours since blood flowed at synagogue?  Check your soul in the makeup chair!— MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) October 29, 2018Perhaps it’s Drudge’s Jewish background that inspired him to call out Fox for its callous politicization of hate crimes.Sometimes decency breaks though in the most unlikely places.— S.O.S. USA (@DeliaMacD1) October 29, 2018Or he realized he and his family could be next.— Nathaniel Snwblowr (@ACMESalesRep) October 29, 2018@DRUDGE just realized his synagogue could be next. Apparently so did @benshapiro and several other prominent members of the ((alt-right)) now asking Trump and Fox to cool off their incitements to violence. Too little, too late, guys, but thanks for trying.— I am not Spartacus (@faberdp) October 29, 2018Hey its never too late, just keep the new ex~cult memebers at arms length for a bit until they prove themselves. Theyre still being deprogrammed from RightWingMedia. Reality is scary at first.— FactStillMatter (@GoldenGirlsRu) October 29, 2018Has your account been hacked? I like it.— Kelly Christensen (@kellyg1160) October 29, 2018Oh Matt you only care because it was Jewish folk that where killed if they were Hispanic or black you would be putting g that shot all over your sight !!— Ronald Reagans Ghost  (@BluTsunami2018) October 29, 2018Drudge posted a screengrab of Fox personalityLisa Kennedy Montgomery yucking it up while discussing possible electoral consequences following the string of hate crimes.Is it really funny? pic.twitter.com/nq8xnT2YDe— MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) October 29, 2018Drudge also shared screengrabs of pundits jovially discussing whether last week’s events would have an impact on the November midterms.“Hysterical!” he wrote.Hysterical! pic.twitter.com/JQBOsfhPY2— MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) October 29, 2018The ticker at the bottom of the screen was its own source of Drudge’s anger as well.“QUESTIONS ON HOW MAIL-BOMB SCARE, SYNAGOGUE ATTACK COULD IMPACT MIDTERM VOTERS EIGHT DAYS FROM NOW”Followers didn’t spare Fox or Drudge from their own frustrations. Drudge helped shape this narrative, some said, and now he has to own it.Fox is state propaganda which spews the kind of right wing hate that led to the massacre. What else do you think they'd do in the aftermath?— Andrew (@ComradeAndrewJ) October 29, 2018It is clear to me that Fox News is more concerned that people supposedly cannot say Merry Christmas than they are about 11 Jews actually being massacred by a neo-Nazi.— Russell Drew (@RussOnPolitics) October 29, 2018They did the same thing with Dylann Roof after shooting up a Black church. FOX actually wrote a sympathy article…for the killer. No one should be surprised, least of all Matt Drudge. Can't help stoke the flames of bigotry and not expect the chickens might come home to roost. pic.twitter.com/nBoh0zyesb— In The Webz (@BBF8droid) October 29, 2018Thought you'd be enjoying the fruits of your decades of labor. You've played a huge part in getting your GOP to this point.— Monkeyfister Mobile (@Monkeyfister2) October 29, 2018Fox News is just propaganda state run tv. Not going to change it.— Jeremy (@menks101) October 29, 2018Thanks for calling this out. You dont think you might have had like a little bit to do with the way the right wing media went insane?— Matthew Maughan (@Maughanathon) October 29, 2018Enjoy the backlash of this tweet that you will and are getting from sheep which you helped create. Your soul is blackened as well, Matt. It would be wise to try and repair the damage which you, and your ilk, have done.— dankfrank (@dankestfrank) October 29, 2018The self-awareness fairy came last night, 15 years too late.— PAmockingbird (@AmockingbirdP) October 29, 2018I'm glad this bothers you, but you helped build this.— Black Panther 2018  (@lakesideliberal) October 29, 2018Ive created a monster and cant stop it. Yup .— King Steady Beat (@kingsteadybeat) October 29, 2018Fox News responded Monday afternoon denying any wrongdoing.	Liberal
Despite recent calls for unity in the face of multiple attacks motivated by hatred, President Donald Trump took to Twitter on Monday morning with business as usual.This time, the president called Tallahassee mayor and current Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum a “thief.”In Florida there is a choice between a Harvard/Yale educated man named @RonDeSantisFL who has been a great Congressman and will be a great Governor – and a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee, said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 29, 2018But Gillum – who has maintained a small but consistent lead over his opponent, Republican Ron DeSantis, since the two won their respective primaries – isn’t taking Trump’s attacks lying down.And he’s accusing Trump of being the absolute worst thing Trump could ever consider anyone to be: weak.On Twitter there is a choice between having the courage to @ the person you are trash talking, or not. @realDonaldTrump is howling because he's weak. Florida, go vote today. https://t.co/I8uOokptJA— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) October 29, 2018This echoes recent attacks Gillum has levied against Trump before when Trump failed to @ him on Twitter.Like I told you, hes weak. And weak people bully, lie, and intimidate.Our country deserves better.#BringItHome https://t.co/vZ1YvnreHS— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) October 22, 2018When you lie about me from the most powerful office in the world and still dont have the courage to @ me… https://t.co/ESxXG5j6eH— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) October 20, 2018Gillum made similar statements during a televised debate, also dismissing DeSantis as a lackey for the president.“Donald Trump is weak, And he performs as all weak people do: they become bullies and Mr. DeSantis is his acolyte. He’s trying out to be the Trump apprentice at every turn. He’s tweeting at him and he’s talking to him. He’s showing up. He’s complimenting him.”In the same way he’s excited many Democrats in Florida, Andrew Gillum’s premium clapback had likely voters cheering.We are with you Andrew!— Stacy The Resistance (@StacyDAlessand3) October 29, 2018"Just win baby"- Al Davis Just win Andrew- A grateful nation— Tony Powell (@comictonypowell) October 29, 2018Mr Mayor, you got this! #BringItHome (and my family voted for you!!)— Sue Dann (@CricketixSue) October 29, 2018Already voted for you! Getting others to do the same! #BringItHome— Warren Davis (@MrWarren_D) October 29, 2018You nailed it….  Our POTUS is a draft dodging coward… and whines like a little bitch about just about anything!!!— Rod Mangrum (@MangrumRod) October 29, 2018And while Gillum received massive praise for his comeback against the president, Donald Trump was heavily criticized for his hypocrisy.	Liberal
In the wake of repeated hate crimes and domestic terrorism in the United States, President Donald Trump faced strong criticism from the public for his rally rhetoric and Twitter feed. Some go back as far as the President’s refusal to condemn neo-Nazis and White supremacists in Charlottesville, Virginia early in his presidency as tacit approval for some of the hate crimes.But the hosts of the President’s favorite programwhich he often tweets quotes or ideas fromFox News Fox & Friends morning show, defended Trump Monday morning. The move surprised no one as the show faces frequent accusations of being a propaganda machine of the Trump administration.Members of the President’s staff and family turn to the couch at Fox & Friends when there is a story that needs a media spin. The President himself calls into the show and the hosts speak to the camera while addressing Trump personally to give advice.On Monday, the Fox & Friends hosts stated the President’s rhetoric targeting George Soros and use of known White supremacist talking points, as well as his association with antisemitic people and groups and failure to disavow such relationships, did not make Trump culpable for any of the recent violence or hate crimes.Speaking of the mass shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh where 11 people were murdered and 6 more injured, the hosts chastised the media and the public for citing the President’s past calls for violence and use of known White supremacist language like “globalist” and “nationalist.”Brian Kilmeade said:“I was just stunned to see how quick everyone was blaming the president and his tone for what happened. Its just crazy to make that leap and get politics into this.”Ainsley Earhardt added:“This guy was not a Trump supporter, first of all.”Then Steve Doocy said:“This guy, the shooter, hated Trump because he thought the president was a globalist, he did not vote for him, he never owned a MAGA hat. And yet you saw that kinda reaction all day yesterday.”Watch Doocy’s remarks from Fox & Friends here..@foxandfriends‘ @SteveDoocy claims Pittsburgh shooter couldn’t have been motivated by Trump’s hateful rhetoric because “he never owned a MAGA hat.”And despite fact shooter was motivated by conspiracy pushed by Trump, @AinsleyEarhardt says “this guy was not a Trump supporter.” pic.twitter.com/Hj7P1ubSs8 Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) October 29, 2018The hosts stayed away from bringing up the man now dubbed the MAGAbomber.People disagreed with the Fox & Friends hosts.He’s still the #MAGAShooter because he believed the whacked out conspiracy theories promoted by Trump and his ilk NewJeffCT (@NewJeffCT) October 29, 2018They tell their followers what they want to hear. Susan Joliver ???????????? (@SeekingSusie) October 29, 2018Then their logic suggests we should be concerned with every red hat wearer…Proves most certainly that we *should be cautious of Super-Kanye…he definitely fits the profile…Unbelievable beja ????? (@say_I_do) October 29, 2018Is @AinsleyEarhardt really THAT stupid, or is she a competent and perhaps even gifted actress? Taterkaze (@The_Taterkaze) October 29, 2018Oooh, now do the #MAGABomber pic.twitter.com/KwNJpU7Ity Richard Hill AKA Don Ricardo?? (@ComicOzzie58) October 29, 2018The shooter who murdered 11 people at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh may not own a MAGA hat, but he employed some of the same rhetoric the President uses in his rallies and on Twitter. 	Liberal
Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Monday was heckled by religious protesters who blasted the Alabama Republican for his un-Christian treatment of undocumented immigrants.Sessions wasspeaking to the Boston Lawyers Chapter of the Federalist Society when amember of the clergy in attendance stood up and recited Bible verse Matthew 25:43, which has to do with kindness to strangers. The man urged Sessions to “repent.”Brother Jeff, as a fellow United Methodist I call upon you to repent,” the Methodist pastor said, “to care for those in need, to remember that when you do not care for others, you are wounding the body of Christ.”Sessions defensively brushed off the pastor’s remarks as an “attack.”Well, thank you for those remarks and attack, Sessions responded, but I would just tell you we do our best every day to fulfill my responsibility to enforce the laws of the United States.Watch the clip below:Religious leaders interrupt Attorney General Jeff Sessions' speech: "Brother Jeff, as a fellow United Methodist I call upon you to repent, to care for those in need."Sessions: "Well, thank you for those remarks and attack but I would just tell you we do our best everyday" pic.twitter.com/NUq5HSZZMg— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 29, 2018Shortly thereafter, asecond man was met with boos and jeers of “go home!” from the audience when he tried to interrupt Sessions. He can be heard calling Sessions “hypocritical” for his approach to immigration as he was escorted out of the room.Sessions defended his position by saying his job is to enforce the law.“I don’t believe there’s anything in my theology that says a secular nation-state cannot have lawful laws to control immigration,” the attorney general said, “not immoral, not indecent and not unkind to state what your laws are and then set about to enforce them.”Watch the clip below:Jeff Sessions responds to protesters: "I don't believe there's anything in my theology that says a secular nationstate cannot have lawful laws to control immigration … not immoral, not indecent and not unkind to state what your laws are and then set about to enforce them" pic.twitter.com/oGjtMM67ru— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 29, 2018First, Twitter noticed that the crowd only booed one of the protesters – who happens to be black.How come they only booed the black guy?— Mike Norris (@MikeNorrisLFK) October 29, 2018I was thinking the same thing, and he was the only one escorted out. — Emma (@emmahollowell11) October 29, 2018Yeah. Sadly I think we all know the answer.— Mike Norris (@MikeNorrisLFK) October 29, 2018Indeed, although the real stir was caused by Sessions’ use of the word “attack.” Twitter wasn’t having it.Dear Attorney General Jeff Sessions,This is Anthony Borges, he is a student at Stoneman Douglas who was shot multiple times while barricading a door with his body, saving countless lives. This young man now must wear colostomy bag for a lifetime..Define ''attack'', please. pic.twitter.com/3OdEpHXe73— Vote Nov. 6th (@Cuprikorn66) October 29, 2018It wasnt an attack.— Naydean Phillips (@pislandgirl) October 29, 2018Attack?  My God.  Be human.— kate larkworthy (@buddysage) October 29, 2018To this administration, disagreement is an attack.— Marianne Smith (@MarianneSmith7) October 29, 2018when you hear the words of the crucified Christ and think they're an attack on youyou might want to get right real quick— Nich 'hey how bout less nazis?' DiCaprio (@NichDiCaprio) October 29, 2018Attack????— Sarabeth Jones (@StewieJones3) October 29, 2018Definitely not an attack. Good job at standing up for what you believe in! Now, if only we had an administration that stood up for all human beings.— Political Thoughts With Steve Podcast  (@OfficialPTWStev) October 29, 2018It's sad when constructive criticism delivered in a civil manner is considered an attack. Repent indeed!— Tom Mason (@gatormason) October 29, 2018The optics of tossing out religious leaders who were exercising their First Amendment rights are terrible, regardless of spiritual belief.Wait… Are they throwing the Clergy out because @jeffsessions had his wittle feelings hurt?….— Renay Jolley (@LjollyRenay) October 29, 2018Hmmm. Anti-religiosity at work?— Gaye Tannenbaum  (@GayeShermanNYC) October 29, 2018When youre thrown out for espousing the message of Jesus Christ at a gathering of religious leaders, you know things must change.  VOTE.— Trish (@Helene0555) October 29, 2018Sessions, a devout Methodist, is no stranger to being criticized by members of his own faith.	Liberal
Twitter founder Jack Dorsey announced at a company event that Twitter would remove theability to “like” individual tweets in an effort to improve the quality of debate on its website, according to a report inThe Telegraph. Although Twitter has not released a definitive statement, its communications team said in a tweet that it is “in the early stages of the work” and has “no plans” to share details at this moment.As we've been saying for a while, we are rethinking everything about the service to ensure we are incentivizing healthy conversation, that includes the like button. We are in the early stages of the work and have no plans to share right now. https://t.co/k5uPe5j4CW— Twitter Comms (@TwitterComms) October 29, 2018There is no specific timeline for changes or particular planned changes to discuss,” the company told The Telegraph.“We’re experimenting and considering numerous possible changes, all with an eye toward ensuring we’re incentivising the right behaviors to drive healthy conversation.Dorsey’s announcement follows comments he made in March thatTwitter was committed to increasing the collective health, openness, and civility of public conversation.” He admitted that Twitter didnt fully predict or understand the real-world negative consequences of their platform.We have witnessed abuse, harassment, troll armies, manipulation through bots and human-coordination, misinformation campaigns, and increasingly divisive echo chambers,” he wrote at the time.We arent proud of how people have taken advantage of our service, or our inability to address it fast enough. While working to fix it, weve been accused of apathy, censorship, political bias, and optimizing for our business and share price instead of the concerns of society.The news that the “like” button would be removed did not go over well with many of the platform’s users. Some pointed out that removing the feature would deal a heavy blow to artists and creatives who’ve used the platform for exposure. Others demanded that the company address the spread of spread of hate speech on its platform.These people are all completely inadequate custodians of their own creations. @Twitter should create an advisory panel of, you know, humans. And nobody who doesn't understand the value of the Like button should be running the show. https://t.co/OrmoOIWjnD— Mark Harris (@MarkHarrisNYC) October 29, 2018This is not a fucking debate site and the people who harasss you and then attack you for not debating them are the ones that need to be removed, @jack @twitter, not the like button. Either remove the fucking racists or just admit that youre on their fucking side. https://t.co/xIaGBJxXI3— Celeste Ng (@pronounced_ing) October 29, 2018Twitter users: We'd like to edit tweets and for Twitter to take claims of harassment/abuse more seriously.@jack : We're taking away the like buttonTwitter users: What https://t.co/XxN6sb6fy4— Valerie Insinna (@ValerieInsinna) October 29, 2018Everyone: a literal white supremacist terrorist used your platform for hate speech and threats.@jack: hmm got it, let's remove the Like button so fascists can get more actual RTs instead of those stupid hearts. https://t.co/glm4HZ1JzP— Indrapramit Das (@IndrapramitDas) October 29, 2018Seriously? The like button is solidarity. It says, I see you even when youre too exhausted to form a reply. Its a nod or a smile. Its support.This is a depressingly bad move, @jack.— Gabe (they/he) (@Ava_Jae) October 29, 2018Twitter reported a net loss of 9 million users in the third quarter of 2018, in part because of its initiative to remove bots and spam from the platform.Variety notes that Twitter “has seen a 20% quarter-over-quarter decrease in successful user-account signups since it rolled out new initiatives to reduce spammers, bots and other suspicious user accounts.” Despite these issues, Twitter has “exceeded Wall Street expectations on revenue and earnings, turning in its fourth straight profitable quarter.”	Liberal
Patti Davisdaughter of late President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reaganwrote in an OpEd for The Washington Post that President Donald Trump is incapable of providing comfort after tragedy.Davis, an author and actress, stated:“This President will never offer comfort, compassion or empathy to a grieving nation. Its not in him. When questioned after a tragedy, he will always be glib and inappropriate.”She added:“So I have a wild suggestion: Lets stop asking him. His words are only salt in our wounds.”She wrote of her own father’s words after the Challenger space shuttle disaster. Davis also reflected on the words of President Bill Clinton after the mass shooting at Columbine, President George W. Bush after 9/11 and President Barack Obama after the mass shooting at Sandy Hook.Davis recalled:“Ronald Reagan has not been the only president to offer comfort and solace to a grieving nation….Each spoke eloquently, with somber compassion and with reverence for the pain of the victims and the shock of a saddened country.”“Our grief was reflected in their eyes. We didnt doubt that their hearts were breaking along with ours.”But she found the 45th President’s compassion and empathy lacking in his responses. Davis wrote:“Now, after a week of fear, with pipe bombs being sent to a list of people whom President Trump has said horrible things about, and to CNN, which he consistently targets, 11 Jewish citizens were slaughtered in their place of worship on the Sabbath.”“Trumps response? He joked that he almost canceled an event because, after having to speak to reporters about the shooting in the rain, he was having ‘a bad hair day’.”“Yes, I know, he first read what was scripted for him and called the act ‘evil’. But he has also called Democrats, others who oppose him and the news media evil. The word doesnt hold much meaning coming from him.”Davis took exception to the President’s repeating of a known National Rifle Association (NRA) talking point after mass shootings: their “good guy with a gun” suggestion. In her OpEd, Davis wrote:“After 11 worshippers were gunned down, massacred because they were Jewish, Trump said there should have been an armed guard inside. He said the death penalty should be toughened. And then, later, he made his joke about having a bad hair day and tweeted about a baseball game.”President Trump often is accused of being a narcissist. But is he?	Liberal
After raising eyebrows in a bizarre sit-down with President Donald Trump in the Oval Office, iconic rapper and designer Kanye West is expanding his support for Trump and the Republican party by teaming up with Trump ally and conspiracy theorist Candace Owens.West has designed tee-shirts endorsing a “blexit” (black exit)–or a massive exit of African Americans from the Democratic party. Owens, who is a spokeswoman for the conservative group Turning Point USA, unveiled the shirt last week at the National Black Youth Leadership Summit at the White House.At long last, https://t.co/nUoq5DBrzU is launched!!! The official Black Exit from the Democrat Party. NO MORE ENSLAVED MINDS. AMERICA FIRST. Support our movement by visiting https://t.co/nUoq5DBrzU today!!! WE ARE FREE!!!!!!!!!! pic.twitter.com/sIYzRHyPXx— Candace Owens (@RealCandaceO) October 27, 2018.@KanyeWest designed these Blexit t-shirts for @RealCandaceOs new Blexit movement. They were handed out at #YBLS2018 pic.twitter.com/fh4IT6lVut— Nikki Schwab (@NikkiSchwab) October 27, 2018Owens said:Blexit is a renaissance and I am blessed to say that this logo, these colors, were created by my dear friend and fellow superhero Kanye West. [West] has taken one of the boldest steps in America to open a conversation we have needed to have.Owens recently received massive backlash for a now-deleted tweet in which she asserted that the bombs delivered to prominent Democrats and media companies were sent by Democrats themselves:Im going to go ahead and state that there is a 0% chance that these suspicious packages were sent out by conservatives. The only thing suspicious about these packages, is their timing. Caravans, fake bomb threatsthese leftists are going ALL OUT for midterms.Soon after, Trump fanatic Cesar Sayoc was found to be the sender.While West has expressed admiration for Donald Trump for almost a year now, his escalation of support for the president with the Oval Office meeting and his efforts to move African Americans from the Democratic party has struck the ire of many.I am black & I don't know any other black person who gives a damn about what Kanye West designs or thinks…Kanye doesn't speak for me nor does that idiot Candace Owens…there's always a few in every race who would sell their mother to the almighty dollar…so there's that… https://t.co/z518Z831vE— Mahogany, MBA (@Mahogany1992) October 29, 2018Whats the point of walking away from the plantation just to jump back on the slave ship?— bonecrusher (@sixftstryder_1) October 29, 2018In a word? No. In two words? HELL no.— Jef Vinson (@Jefwitonef) October 28, 2018Poor stooge. He has no idea how he is being used by people who view him as inferior.— BlueJay_NE (@TANickMA) October 29, 2018The release of the shirts marked an array of other reactions as well.	Liberal
FormerFox News contributor Bill Kristol slammed his former employer for stoking the flames of hate that led to the slaughter of 11 Jews at a Pittsburgh synagogue on Saturday.In an appearance on MSNBC’sMorning Joe on Monday, Kristol blasted Fox for peddling conspiracy theories in the name of profit despite the danger to public safety.Im a free speech person, and Im not for being super fastidious about calling people to account about things that are said in the heat of the moment and so forth, Kristol said. (But) at the end of the day I think Fox, with its evening lineup, Fox Business with Lou Dobbs, the routine stuff that is said there, people who work at Fox, the management of Fox, the shareholders of Fox, the corporate board of Fox really need to look in the mirror and say, Are we comfortable with this? Were making money.’Kristol added that Fox’s rhetoric, like accusing Jewish billionaire philanthropist and Holocaust survivor George Soros of buying protesters, has a detrimental effect on American culture.Obviously no one wants a board of directors to be micromanaging saying you cant say this on the 8 p.m. show,” he said, “but are they comfortable with the overall effect that Fox News and Fox Business, and I say this as someone who was on Fox News for 10 years. Can they defend their effect on the culture?Watch the full clip below:Kristol tore into Fox on Twitter afterFox & Friends host Brian Kilmeade suggested that “entire populations” of immigrants are bringing “diseases” to the United States.“No disease any refugee might bring to America is as dangerous as the disease of fear, bigotry and hatred now being spread in America by Fox.”No disease any refugee might bring to America is as dangerous as the disease of fear, bigotry and hatred now being spread in America by Fox. https://t.co/aOPWAHDgH4— Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) October 29, 2018A doctor chimed in on why Kilmeade’s statement was ridiculous.I'm a pediatrician. Refugees embrace vaccination. They look forward to vaccinating their children. Uninformed Americans with conspiracy theories not based in fact? Not so much.— Rebecca Butterfield (@rcbutter1) October 29, 2018Social media sees right through Fox.To build on that (since Ive had MULTIPLE Trump supporters tell me they dont trust CDC/UNICEF/WHO stats), it defies logic to suggest malnourished migrants who are allegedly riddled w/ deadly disease could physically walk 3000mi w/o dying from said deadly disease.— Tiffany Resists Trump (@tiffanyclay) October 29, 2018Some think they found the real disease, and it’s not refugees seeking asylum.The disease is called Fascism, and it has invested the Republican Party. Get out and Vote for a Human on the 6th.— Madison Law Review (@MadLawReview) October 29, 2018I would guarantee that not one  person in the "caravan" has had unprotected sex with as many 'Pornstars" as tRUmp has! the Evangelical president is a walking talking VECTOR for communicable diseases!— Broderick (@Brodhist73) October 29, 2018With Fox also spreading the anti-vaccine message, clearly they like to keep their viewers frightened and agitated. Typical propagandist's ploy to maintain control. Faux News has really sunk to the level of Infowars ever since going all in as Trump shills almost three years ago.— David Otte (@David0tte) October 29, 2018these people are walking thousands of miles, what 'disease' gives a person the ability to do that?— Alt-Middle (@jff040753) October 29, 2018Projectionism. The only population who came to this country with so many diseases they devastated and wiped out Americans in apocalyptic percentages were the Europeans who almost wiped out the Native American populations.— Suzanne Solomon (@snow_lynx) October 29, 2018The Fox and Friends group is an entire population that can spread the diseases of racism, hatred and fear mongering.  There is an antidote however, an infusion of fairness, love and respect for all people. Add some truth and reason and you have the cure!— Colleen Callan (@NewYorkScribe) October 29, 2018The conversation continued after Kristol tweeted: “The United States of America has a Fox News problem.”	Liberal
White House counselor Kellyanne Conway said on CNN earlier today that President Donald Trump was “trying to heal the country”in the wake of a mass shooting at a Pittsburgh synagogue over the weekend and a mail bomb plot.“The president is trying to heal the country,” she told reporterJohn Berman, further accusing Berman of “cherry picking” the president’s words after Berman noted that Trump had referred to a Democrat who received a suspicious package in last week’s attempted pipe bombings “a lunatic.”But the president quickly proved Conway wrong: He has often characterized the press as “the enemy of the people,” and he has not let up, launching new attacks from his Twitter account.“There is great anger in our Country caused in part by inaccurate, and even fraudulent, reporting of the news,” the president said, in part, adding that the press must “stop its open & obvious hostility.”There is great anger in our Country caused in part by inaccurate, and even fraudulent, reporting of the news. The Fake News Media, the true Enemy of the People, must stop the open & obvious hostility & report the news accurately & fairly. That will do much to put out the flame…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 29, 2018….of Anger and Outrage and we will then be able to bring all sides together in Peace and Harmony. Fake News Must End!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 29, 2018The president was quickly assailed for his remarks.The bombing suspect, who was an obsessed Trump supporter, repeatedly called CNN "the enemy America" on Twitter  echoing the president's rhetoric  before he sent his bombs. Today, the president calls the media "the true Enemy of the People." https://t.co/BnrdDrUJYd— andrew kaczynski (@KFILE) October 29, 2018Anyone who thinks Trump could rise above, unify, misses the point. His only power is over losers who can be whipped up by hate like his  targeting a caravan (Pittsburgh shooter) or the evil Dems and media enemy of the people (#Magabomber). Hes not giving up that power. https://t.co/bJ8ElxfgFg— Michelangelo Signorile (@MSignorile) October 29, 2018Trump is playing with fire with this enemy of the people nonsense. Its utterly dangerousand irresponsible. Republicans should publicly condemn this rhetoric. https://t.co/CswjK6XI55— Matt Lewis (@mattklewis) October 29, 2018Less than a week after a terrorist sent bombs to journalists, Trump showed solidarity with the bomber by repeating the dangerous "enemy of the people" rhetoric that inspired the terrorist, who shared that view of the free press.So much for "unity." pic.twitter.com/gkjguFiZmd— Kara & Deb (@KaraAndDeb) October 29, 2018Trump calls the media "the enemy of the people"Trump tweeted a video of himself body slamming @CNNAfter one of his radicalized supporters sent 2 bombs to @CNN, Trump now blames the media for the hatred he's causingTrump's depravity is on the ballothttps://t.co/d2N4H9JiCU— Rantt Media (@RanttMedia) October 29, 2018The president has often come under fire for his assertions that journalists are inherently dishonest. The president has often criticized news outlets for their coverage of Special Counsel Robert Muellers investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. His attacks on First Amendment rights are well documented; he once infamously claimed that he would seek to amend libel laws and penalize journalists whove reported negative coverage about him and his associates.	Liberal
On Friday, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen dedicated a newly completed replacement section of border fence in Calexio, California. The fences and barriers have existed for years, but recently received routine scheduled maintenance and upgrades.However the DHS Secretary spun a different tale of what the invited and gathered media looked at.According to Nielsen, the open bollard style fence constitutes a wall. And not just a wall, but the border wall from President Donald Trump’s campaign and rally promises.Very proud today to acknowledge the completion of the first section of @POTUS' border wall. Thank you @CBP and all our partners that are helping us to deploy new border wall systems. pic.twitter.com/EXCYFA73iA— Sec. Kirstjen Nielsen (@SecNielsen) October 27, 2018But yeah, that’s a fence.The President specified in his campaign that a wall would be built, not a fence. And when reporters asked about the fence, Nielsen reiterated the fence was a wall.Im next to the #border fence in Calexico with dozens of other media outlets. @SecNielsen will be having a press conference at 9AM. Shes expected to talk about the newly-built, 30ft tall bollards. Its not a new barrier, but rather one of four replacement projects at the border. pic.twitter.com/Sq3K4iHtjB Rafael Carranza (@RafaelCarranza) October 26, 2018When asked if the 30-foot tall fence of steel bollards was a fence, Nielsen said:“It’s different than a fence in that it also has technology. It’s a full wall system. It’s a wall, this is what the president has asked us to do. Its part of a system.”But the prior fence that Trump deemed inadequate also utilized additional technology beyond just fencing. However the new fence is taller.The Trump administration contracted for and tested eight border wall prototypes at a reported cost of $20 million. However all of the prototypes failed in testing.Back in March, Trump tweeted that old photos of another section of replacement fence was his wall under construction, but was quickly corrected. This time Nielsen faces the brunt of the pushback over passing a fence off as a wall.During the presidential campaign and subsequent rallies, Trump promised a “big, beautiful wall” that would definitely not be a fence. He also promised Mexico would pay for it.Neither campaign promise came to fruition yet.But despite the obvious fence visible in the background, Nielsen persisted in talking about the first section of Trump’s border wall being completed. And workers even welded a plaque to the fence to commemorate the event which was livestreamed.ICYM the livestream, after @SecNielsens arrival to the 30ft Calexico #border fence, two men welded this to the fence. It reads: This plaque was installed on October 26, 2018 to commemorate the completion of the first section of President Trumps border wall pic.twitter.com/ZnJF6xtpOw Rafael Carranza (@RafaelCarranza) October 26, 2018Despite repeatedly calling the fence a wall, people online disagreed with Nielsen.So more of the tactical infrastructure the Obama administration budgeted in 2016 for Naco, etc. So much for the “impenetrable, physical, tall, powerful, beautiful” wall. Paul Ingram (@pmingram) October 26, 2018You mis-spelled fence. Clay Ranck (@clayranck) October 26, 2018DHS unveils Trump’s first completed border wall project: ‘Walls work’ https://t.co/VEDr06k3yx // isn’t this a fence? Steven Sinofsky (@stevesi) October 26, 2018So you repaired a 30ft section of the fence? And wanna call it the new wall? ?? CinCity (@Cin2112City) October 26, 2018Looks like they decorated the fence ?? looks nothing like the $20million prototypes! Danielle Graychik (@DaniGraychik) October 26, 2018First time I see a wall you can see through… Eric Martin (@emartinnn) October 26, 2018Looks like a fence. Jason The X (@JasonTheX) October 26, 2018Its the same fence! Danielle Graychik (@DaniGraychik) October 26, 2018This looks nothing like the ones trump inspected earlier this summer. Could it be the fence that has been installed is a replacement section and not the real wall trump has been pushing for? Proud liberal (@ribbone9) October 26, 2018Yea, ummmm…… That’s literally a FENCE. CookieSmart (@ALSouthpaw) October 26, 2018Isnt this actually replacement for existing border fencing that was already in place BEFORE Trump Administration? ?? Karen Bethany ?????? (@Karen_Bethany_) October 26, 2018Fact: Trump keeps talking WALL. There is no wall. My son lives in southern Az. There is however a FENCE. The only part of the “wall” being worked on is in southern Cal. where the FENCE is being repaired. Residents of Calmex say work on repairing fence has been going on 15 yrs?? pic.twitter.com/tlRdT4o6bu Joeygritz71 (@joeygritz71) October 20, 2018Others took exception with the plaque.	Liberal
After days of unrest in which 13 improvised explosive devices were sent to high-profile Democrats and media organizations across the country, investigators have apprehended the culprit, Cesar Sayoc. Sayoc’s would-be victims have all been targets of repeated harsh words and false claims by President Donald Trump, leading many to believe that Sayoc’s actions were motivated by the president’s rhetoric.While information is still emerging, it appears that the “false flag” claim floated by many Trump loyalists isn’t going to fly.The windows of Sayoc’s van were covered in pro-Trump and anti-Democrat propaganda, including one featuring former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton with a target on her face.So perhaps it should come as little surprise that his Twitter account too was full of anti-Democratic and pro-Trump rhetoric. In fact, he’d been reported to Twitter in the past:Hey @Twitter remember when I reported the guy who was making threats towards me after my appearance on @FoxNews and you guys sent back a bs response about how you didnt find it that serious. Well guess what its the guy who has been sending #bombs to high profile politicians!!!! pic.twitter.com/xBY8FMbqnq— R O C H E L L E (@RochelleRitchie) October 26, 2018Well, Twitter did finally suspend his account but the Internet doesn’t forget.One video showed him at a Trump rally in June.Video of the suspect Cesar Sayoc, Jr. at a Trump rally, posted in June 2018. He tweets: Happy Birthday tge greatest President Ever Trump Trump Trump pic.twitter.com/81wtm0ETwn— Andrew Peng (@TheAPJournalist) October 26, 2018Many of the tweets – though often incoherent – were about those he would later target with the explosive devices, like Maxine Waters. And billionaire philanthropist and liberal donor George Soros.And another on DNC Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, whose office was used as the return address on the devices.Sayoc’s tweets displayed a particular ire for former President Barack Obama, who was also targeted by the explosive devices.Several tweets attacked the “left-wing media” for supposedly obscuring erotic photographs of President Barack Obama’s mother. Interestingly enough, none of the tweets address the many nude and erotic photographs taken of Melania Trump during her modeling career. While information regarding the crimes is still emerging, the Twitter paints a portrait of a man obsessed with avenging Donald Trump and Republicans while spreading ire for Democrats. Some indicated violent tendencies.	Liberal
Fox News host Tucker Carlson, best known for his fiery brand of conservatism and contentious treatment of guests on his show, is struggling with the growing animosity in American politics.While the country remained on high alert after a string of attempted bombings of Democratic officials, Carlson asked the Twitterverse on Thursday just how exactly we got here.“How’d we get to a place where it’s normal that two parts of the country despise each other? That you can imagine the other side encouraging terror?” Carlson tweeted. “Our thinking changed. We stopped debating politics & ideas & started attacking others for things we can’t change, for who we are.”How'd we get to a place where it's normal that two parts of the country despise each other? That you can imagine the other side encouraging terror? Our thinking changed. We stopped debating politics & ideas & started attacking others for things we can't change, for who we are.— Tucker Carlson (@TuckerCarlson) October 26, 2018Twitter’s response to Carlson: Seriously? Because of you.Um, is this a rhetorical question?— Just Jill   (@JustJillHere) October 26, 2018You just published a book calling half the country fools.This is like getting a lecture on harmonious race relations from a Klansman.— Tennesseine (@Tennesseine) October 26, 2018You, Tucker Carlson, are part of the problemDonald Trump, with the help of folks like you over at @FoxNews, is responsible for radicalizing #MAGABomber Cesar SayocThe @GOP is culpable in their refusal to condemn Trump's violent rhetoric#VoteBlue@realDonaldTrump @POTUS— Cameron L. Mitchell (@CameronLMitchel) October 26, 2018Does he watch his own show?Have you watched your own show?— Austin Swafford (@Astros290) October 26, 2018You should check out this guy @TuckerCarlsons show on @FoxNews. Hes such a divisive, racist, propagandist it will all make sense to you.— Andrew Wortman (@AmoneyResists) October 26, 2018Debating politics and ideas is fine. Debasing politics and ideas is not. When you report news based on ideology not fact, you are complicit. Take a long look inward.— Sharon (@SharonGF_NBCT) October 26, 2018You. And your network. Own it.— Moving Forward, Again. (@cubfansince76) October 26, 2018Look into the mirror, Tucker. You will see the problem and possibly a solution. Stop the hate speech!— John Gee (@nevrmyprez) October 26, 2018Says the man who hosts "The Ed Sullivan Show" of white supremacists.— Victor Laszlo (@Impolitics) October 26, 2018You wanted to lynch black athletes @NFL  for protesting & #kneeling #policebrutality and helped set ablaze that smoldering underlying thing called #racism. Its nice to be previliged and detached from the real world. #ThisIsAmerica— Ken Lunkins (@KenLunkins) October 26, 2018"We stopped debating politics & ideas & started attacking others for things we can't change"WE?  WE? Honey, you get paid per episode to do it. pic.twitter.com/CGT80Dfikt— Frances Langum (@bluegal) October 26, 2018Tucker I just watched you a few days ago at @Politicon, have a "discussion" (or whatever the heck that was supposed to be) with @JamesCarville. You were so dismissive, arrogant, snarky, antagonistic and provocative. How could you possibly be confused about how we got here. YOU!!!— Greer McVay (@GreerMcVay) October 26, 2018Have you literally watched even one episode of your show?  Or of Hannitys?  Or heard Trump speak?— Brian (@brian24587) October 26, 2018You are bring incredibly hypocritical. Your show is one of the most hyper-partisan shows currently available. You bolster conspiracy theories, you lie in favor of Trump and against Dems regularly, you encourage distrust of "the other side." You are a part of the problem.— Nicole (@LoquaciousPup) October 26, 2018And yet, he’s really asking.And admitting you have a problem is the first step.  Very good.— Ben Gibbins MSG ret. (@para82nd_1) October 26, 2018How in the hell do we actually get to a point where one of the people responsible for at least 50% of the anger actually is dumb enough to ask this question?  Did you think we havent noticed what youve been doing?— TeddyBearPersians (@TeddyPersians) October 26, 2018Thanks Tucker. You are a BIG apart of the problem. You and Fox have fomented division and hatred. I blame you, Ingram, Hannity and the other Neo-Nazis that Rupert Murdoch utilizes to make him mega wealthy— Gary Bl (@Garyb513) October 26, 2018I’ll just leave this gem here.ImAgiNe tHe oTHer siDe enCoURaGing tErRor?https://t.co/agdzoVObP2— (((edelweisspirat))) TumpTeason (@crandallgold) October 26, 2018Let’s not forget Trump and his endorsement of violence. Can I borrow a lighter? pic.twitter.com/qICoGex8PQ— olavski (@olavski) October 26, 2018We may never know pic.twitter.com/nNIMegyeUX— David (@drichey446) October 26, 2018I would be remiss however if I didn’t dig up some Carlson classics.	Liberal
Law enforcement officials have arrested 56-year-old Cesar Sayoc in connection with the string of bombing attempts that have targeted political rivals of President Donald Trump since last weekend.Sayoc was apprehended Friday morning at an Auto Zone store in Plantation, Florida, reports say.Shortly after he was taken into custody, video footage of Sayoc attending a Trump rally in Cincinatti, Ohio in October 2016 emerged online. Sayoc is a registered Republican, according to early reports.WATCH: Social media video shows mail bombing suspect Cesar Sayoc attending pro-Trump rally in Oct. 2016 https://t.co/QOC2JDvOIU pic.twitter.com/GsCKtEjYKD— CBS News (@CBSNews) October 26, 2018He also posted video of himself at a Trump rally for Trump’s birthday.Happy Birthday tge greatest President Ever Trump Trump Trump pic.twitter.com/VoXvQMGApi— Cesar Altieri (@hardrock2016) June 7, 2018He seems nice.And HERE is the man himself, Cesar Sayoc, who tried to ASSASSINATE a large portion of the leadership of the Democratic party — AT A TRUMP RALLY. pic.twitter.com/fvaOZ9Li40— Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) October 26, 2018Twitter exploded with disgust as users connected Sayoc’s fondness of Trump as motivation for the attempted assassinations.Caught him red-hatted.— kwtalk (@kwtalk) October 26, 2018This rally is in Cincinnati. He lived in FL. How many rallies has he attended? How many other rallies are attended by groupies?  Did he drive his van to OH? How many other rally goers have vans covered with Pro-Trump, pro violence stickers and clippings?   #MAGABomber— 30piecesofsilver (@30piecesofsilve) October 26, 2018The #RedHatsOfHate of violence— AJLux (@LuxAngela) October 26, 2018Soldier of Trump— Louis Cyphre (@LouisCy36281724) October 26, 2018another one of trump's very fine people. pardon coming before or after midterms?— beavis trickle (@eptcb126) October 26, 2018No surprise…— … (@Neftalii_Garcia) October 26, 2018Of course!— Katie Ann Records (@KatieAnnRecords) October 26, 2018Not even remotely shocked.— YusufofKumogakure (@YusufofK) October 26, 2018You talk like Trump does & you stoke, in people who already harbor hate & God knows what other issues, fires that lead to dangerous actions like Cesar Sayocs! I wish more than anything else peace for the world. We dont have to love one another but we can live & let live.— Waithira M. Protano (@In2TheSunshine2) October 26, 2018Authorities also towed and impounded Sayoc’s white van, which was plastered with pro-Trump bumper stickers and decals showing prominentDemocrats like Hillary Clinton – to whom one of the bombs was sent – and Michael Moore – in crosshairs.	Liberal
President Donald Trump railed against Democrats at a White House event meant to call for unity in the wake of the arrest of Cesar Sayoc, the suspect in the string of attempted mail-bombings this week.Trump began the event by characterizing the bomb scares as a series of “terrorizing acts” that are “despicable and have no place in our country.”“We must never allow political violence to take root in America  cannot let it happen  and I am committed to doing everything in my power to stop it and to stop it now,” he added.Trump: "The bottom line is that Americans must unify and we must show the world that we are united together in peace and love and harmony as fellow American citizens" https://t.co/bm0VJoPHPo pic.twitter.com/0TcTveDlVN— CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) October 26, 2018Minutes later, the president repeated the phrase “lock them up” about his opponents. He also attacked “globalists” who he says are working with foreign countries to “cheat” American workers.“They’re called globalists. I like the globe too, but we have to take care of our people,” he said.Just moments after Trump calls for unity at a WH event, he references "globalists," prompting several audience members shout "Soros" — who was a target of one of the bombs — and others shout "lock him up" to which Trump chuckles, points and repeats "lock him up" pic.twitter.com/IWZR3DRCvk— Robert Maguire (@RobertMaguire_) October 26, 2018The event, a gathering of young black leaders at the White House, was punctuated by other odd moments, which were documented by Daniel Dale, a Washington correspondent for theToronto Star. A few of those moments are highlighted below:Trump congratulates the young black conservatives for helping “make America great again.” They wave their red hats again. Trump also says they’re not only future leaders but currently leaders, since, look, they’re in the White House. “Not bad. Not bad. Not bad.” Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2018Shortly after announcing the arrest, Trump calls Turning Point USA’s Candace Owens “incredible.” She suggested that the attacks were a false flag by left-wingers. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2018Trump complains of “fake polls,” with no evidence. He calls Kanye West “a little different” but a “smart guy.” He notes that Kanye West hugged him and said he feels like Superman in a MAGA hat. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2018Trump criticizes the media, then laughs approvingly at someone who shouted “fake news,” then says “I won’t use examples” because it’s a “special day” in which somebody was arrested for attempted bombings. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2018Trump says he is determined to make it acceptable again to call people “beautiful” and “handsome” in public. “We have to bring that back into the world of being OK, right.” Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2018Trump complains about people saying “America First” is racist (it was used by antisemites during World War II, among others). “I said racist? Racist? Why is that racist?…Does everybody in this room agree? You’re living in America. America First.” There is a U-S-A chant. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2018Cesar Sayoc was apprehended earlier this afternoon at an Auto Zone shop in Plantation, Florida. Law enforcement took possession of a van covered in pro-Trump stickers. Additionally, photographs of Sayoc attending several #MAGA rallies during the 2016 election cycle emerged online.WATCH: Social media video shows mail bombing suspect Cesar Sayoc attending pro-Trump rally in Oct. 2016 https://t.co/QOC2JDvOIU pic.twitter.com/GsCKtEjYKD— CBS News (@CBSNews) October 26, 2018Sayoc was identified after DNA was taken from two other suspicious packages were found, one addressed to Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) and the other to James Clapper, the former director of national intelligence.Sayoc has a criminal record dating back to at least 1992. He made abomb threat in 2002, according to Miami-Dade County court records, and pleaded guilty to that offense. He also had financial troubles, and once declared bankruptcy.Trump praised the FBI and the Secret Service for the arrest, saying: “Its like a needle in a haystack,” Trump said. “And they have done an incredible, incredible job.”	Liberal
Throughout the tumultuous confirmation process of now-Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, Republicans painted Democrats’ opposition to the appointment as ridiculous, frequently citing Kavanaugh’s breadth of experience and upstanding moral character.Now that Kavanaugh is safely tucked into his lifetime appointment, Trump supporters are making their motives more transparent. One of those is Republican former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, who shocked the audience at aWashington Postevent with his answer to what would happen if the president was subpoenaed for his tax returns.“Then it will be trapped–put into the Supreme Court and we’ll see if the Kavanaugh fight was worth it.”Watch the chilling exchange below.If the Democrats take the house and subpoena Trump's tax returns, Newt Gingrich says it will go to SCOTUS "and we'll see whether or not the Kavanaugh fight was worth it." (audience gasps).What he's saying is that Kavanaugh was put on the court to defend the President. WTF, man. pic.twitter.com/Sq6vn9rdO4— Holly Fero O'Relly (@AynRandPaulRyan) October 26, 2018Gingrich’s sentiments are what many Democrats feared upon discovery that Kavanaugh once opined that a president couldn’t be indicted. If Gingrich is right, then Justice Kavanaugh didn’t receive this lifetime appointment based on his merits or what is good for the country, but based on his allegiance to a corrupt and unpredictable president with historically low approval ratings.Many Americans were unsettled but not surprised.At long last a little transparency and a guarantee: Kavanaugh is a plant for Trump. The Supreme Court just lost a whole lot of moral and legal authority. Another institution that Trump has corrupted.— H Wayne Storey (@HWayneStorey1) October 26, 2018He's saying it out loud but we all knew that was why they shoved Kavanaugh down our throats.#Vote like your life depends on it. Because it probably does.— Brian Lang (@BrianLangAuthor) October 26, 2018But why is this shocking, or in any way news? It was painfully obvious this was the strategy from Day 1 of Kavanaugh"s nomination— CP wants @PhilBredesen for #TNSenator (@CPinNashville) October 26, 2018Please forgive me for being Capt. Obvious for a moment, but the surprise of course is not that it's true but that he is admitting it.— Gazoo (@ejwinder) October 26, 2018Through the lens of Gingrich’s slip of the tongue, the entire Kavanaugh confirmation saga begins to make more sense.	Liberal
Robert DeNiro has a powerful message for Americans following the discovery of a pipe bomb that was mailed to his production company, Tribeca Enterprises.“I thank God no one’s been hurt, and I thank the brave and resourceful security and law enforcement people for protecting us,” the actor and owner of the Tribeca Film Festival told CNN’s Jake Tapper. “There’s something more powerful than bombs, and that’s your vote. People MUST vote!Robert De Niro statement following package sent to his office: I thank God no one's been hurt, and I thank the brave and resourceful security and law enforcement people for protecting us.  There's something more powerful than bombs, and that's your vote.  People MUST vote!— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) October 26, 2018Tribeca Enterprises also issued a statement saying that the proper precautions were taken and that business will continue as usual.“A suspicious package was received,” the organization said. “We called the police. They took it out and went through all safety procedures. It was addressed to Robert De Niro and is similar packaging to the others. It is an open investigation. Everyone is safe and the building is open.”Twitter’s reaction to DeNiro: good. Fight.Robert DeNiro has spoken! I have so much friggin admiration for him. There's something more powerful than bombs, and that's your vote.  People MUST vote! #RobertDeNiro https://t.co/qQF0qigjh4— #MrCatwoman (@KingRichard76) October 26, 2018Robert De Niro is calling on people to vote in light of the series of bombs mailed to targets of right-wing anger. In a statement released There's something more powerful than bombs, and that's your vote. People must vote!"  #VoteBlueToEndThisNightmare #RobertDeNiro— Mary Byron (@GlobalEventMary) October 26, 2018De Niro: Theres something more powerful than bombs, and thats your vote. People MUST VOTE!I think what De Niro meant to say was, something more powerful than F-bombsAre you talking to me?  Yes, Im talking to you, De Niro. https://t.co/NdXf4ltiqP— Ryan Glab (@ryanglab) October 26, 2018Vote— Gerald Paoli (@gerald_paoli) October 26, 2018We as Americans have only one real voice to be heard over the sick rhetoric and dog whistling of Donald Trump: VOTE!!! Democrats and Americans must come together to rebuke Trump and Republican minority ideology that is ruling over the majority mind set in this country! #BlueWave— Robbie Rose (@RobbieR60257968) October 26, 2018Violence being called for and those with the loudest voices targeted. This all must end. Now. Speak with your vote— elizabeth luke (@misslizluke) October 26, 2018I LOVE Robert DeNiro. Hes amazing, he cares about his country! #VoteRedToSaveAmerica #VoteBlueToEndThisNightmare— Vote Nov. 6th (@Cuprikorn66) October 26, 2018VOTE— IBTurner (@SABrinson) October 26, 2018A pipe bomb was discovered on the 7th floor of 375 Greenwich Street on Thursday, the latest in a string of attempted assassinations of critics of President Donald Trump. The package was nearly identical to others that were sent to top Democrats and CNN earlier this week.The targets include former President Barack Obama, the Clintons, George Soros, former Vice President Joe Biden, former Attorney General Eric Holder, former CIA Director John Brennan, and members of Congress.Two additional explosive devices – one addressed to Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) and the other to former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper – were discovered Friday morning.	Liberal
Caitlyn Jennerwho famously came out as a transgender woman in 2015 and shared news of her transition with the publicpenned an OpEd for The Washington Post published Thursday afternoon. A lifelong Republican from a conservative background, Jenner supported President Donald Trump during the 2016 election and after.Jenner’s OpEd is titled:“I thought Trump would help trans people. I was wrong.”After a memo from the Trump administration‘s Department of Health and Human Services leaked, the public learned they intended to define gender as binary and determined by genitalia at birth. While the move ignores science and the complex nature of human gender, it surprised few people familiar with the close ties between the Trump White House and the religious right.Evangelical Christianslike Vice President Mike Penceembrace any rollback of the rights of LGBTQ citizens. However not all Republicans are on board for a government ruled by the Evangelical interpretation of the Bible over the United States Constitution.Jenner, a once vocal advocate for Trump, now admits she made a mistake.She wrote:“These past two years under President Trump have given me the opportunity to reflect on a lot of topics that have come up in the LGBTQ community and in our nation. Some of these are thorny issues still worth discussing; many should have been settled long ago.”“As Ive watched and pondered, my outlook has changed significantly from what it was during my highly publicized and glamorized early Caitlyn days, when my life as an out trans woman was just beginning.”In her OpEd, she also acknowledges her privilege. She stated:“Since then, I have learned and continue to learn about the obstacles our community faces, the politics that surround us and the places my voice can help. I have reflected on what my unique position of privilege means and how I can best use it to make a positive difference.”Jenner then reflected on Trump’s promises during the Republican Convention and his vow to support and defend the LGBTQ community. She recounted her hope for a change in the GOP and her plan to affect change from within.She added:“I made many trips to Washington to lobby and educate members of Congress, other Washington policymakers and powerful influencers. These meetings were generally positive and almost always led to encouraging conversations. Despite the criticism I received from segments of the LGBTQ community for engaging with this administration, I remained hopeful for positive change.”Finally however, Jenner faced facts. She continued:“Sadly, I was wrong. The reality is that the trans community is being relentlessly attacked by this president. The leader of our nation has shown no regard for an already marginalized and struggling community. He has ignored our humanity. He has insulted our dignity.”“He has made trans people into political pawns as he whips up animus against us in an attempt to energize the most right-wing segment of his party, claiming his anti-transgender policies are meant to protect the country. This is politics at its worst. It is unacceptable, it is upsetting, and it has deeply, personally hurt me.”Jenner then admits she made a mistake.	Liberal
The nation is very much on edge after several suspected pipe bombs were sent to the offices of CNN and prominent Democratic politicians this week, and President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly railed against the press, in a 3 AM tweet tore into the media forallegedly “blaming” him for the attempted attacks.Funny how lowly rated CNN, and others, can criticize me at will, even blaming me for the current spate of Bombs and ridiculously comparing this to September 11th and the Oklahoma City bombing, yet when I criticize them they go wild and scream, its just not Presidential!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 26, 2018Hours after the president issued his tweet, another suspicious package was discovered, this one addressed to CNN’s headquarters. The package was found at a New York postal facility and addressed to CNN and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, a prominent Trump critic who has occasionally appears on the network as a contributor.CNN obtained a picture of the package from law enforcement.In a statement, Clapper called the packages “domestic terrorism,” a label both Trump and the White House have avoided.“My wife and I are away from home right now. And our neighbors have been retrieving our mail. Been very concerned about them. So in one sense, its kind of a relief, but its not a surprise.This is definitely domestic terrorism. No question about it in my mind,” he said, adding that the packageswill “not silence the administration’s critics.”James Clapper calls into CNN: "It appears they got the correct spelling of my name….it's not a surprise. This is definitely domestic terrorism. No question about it in my mind." pic.twitter.com/Bjze3MFJ0H— andrew kaczynski (@KFILE) October 26, 2018I think anyone who has in any way been a critic, publicly been a critic of President Trump, needs to be on an extra alert and take some precautions, particularly with respect to mail, Clapper said.White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders confirmed this morning that the president is being briefed on that package as well as another thatwas addressed to the Camden, New Jersey office of Senator Corey Booker, who has often criticized the Trump administration. The package wasintercepted in Opa-locka, Florida.The President is receiving constant information as it is available, Sanders said.The president’s tweet was the first time hementioned CNN by name over its coverage of the suspicious packages and pipe bombs. He was immediately criticized.Its not only that Trump was up at 3:14 a.m. and thought it was a good idea to tweet attacks at a media outlet that was a bomb recepient.  Its also that he lacked the impulse control to stop himself and knew he could get away with it without GOP pushback.— Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) October 26, 2018Ponder for a moment amidst a nationwide bomb scare the President of the United States is up watching cable news at 3 am…anger tweeting this network. Thanks for watching @realDonaldTrump well be live 4ET— Dave Briggs (@davebriggstv) October 26, 2018Funny how the President of the United States has nothing better to do at 3 am than rage-tweet about organizations he doesnt like. (Also, was that written on a secure device? Asking for the 327 million people youre supposed to be protecting.)— Cindy Kitchel (@CindyKitchel) October 26, 2018A real president would not be up at 3AM complaining about the press. Hed be worrying about whether there is a serial bomber trying to assassinate former presidents and prominent Americans. Youre just not capable of doing this job.#resign— bells (@bells110) October 26, 2018FREE PRESS:One of the most important aspect of a democratic system is accountability. Not only accountability of individual politicians but also institutions, political parties and other decision making entities.And that's why they can criticize you. THAT'S THEIR JOB NOT YOURS!!— Mary Miller (@BOBSarmymom) October 26, 2018The tweet “suggests the President has little desire to play the role of national counselor being forced upon him — one that is a poor fit given his deliberately divisive style. The drama usually ends with another layer of bile added to the nation’s politics,” writes CNN’s Stephen Collinson.	Liberal
Fox Business Network host Lou Dobbs called the bombs and suspicious packages that were mailed to prominent Democrats and the offices of CNN this week “fake news.”The tweet was widely condemned and Dobbs deleted itbut not before it was captured in screenshots.Fox Business Network host Lou Dobbs asserted in a tweet without evidence that it was fake news that suspicious packages were mailed this week to Democrats and the NYC offices of CNNHe later deleted his tweet after immediate and widespread condemnation https://t.co/9DmKPH6xlT pic.twitter.com/vlEu49ftj1— CNN (@CNN) October 25, 2018Dobbs then posted a second tweet suggesting that the bombs and suspicious packages were designed to change “the narrative from the onslaught of illegal immigrants and broken border security.” He deleted that tweet soon afterward, butagainnot before it was screenshotted.Dobbs has now posted this tweet, after deleting his previous tweet in which he called the explosive devices mailed to high-profile Democrats "fake bombs." He now says "fake news has just successfully changed the narrative," sort of implying the same thing his prior tweet did. pic.twitter.com/WEoRM4DYO3— Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) October 25, 2018It’s still unclear if Dobbs will face any disciplinary action for his tweets. A Fox Business Network spokesperson said thatDobbs “clarified his sentiment” in a new tweet posted to his account (which he has not deleted):On Lou Dobbs Tonight I'll take up why FBI and ATF hasn't informed the public about contents of "suspicious packages":  whether hoax or bombs, they were clearly designed to influence election. Why? #Dobbs— Lou Dobbs (@LouDobbs) October 25, 2018The Fox Business Network spokesperson has not yet responded to requests for elaboration. But at Fox News, the sister channel to Fox Business Network, a senior employee told CNN Business that people like Dobbs “[who] really ruin it for all the hard working journalists at Fox.”Dobbs’s incendiary tweets follow a tense last 24 hours which began whena bomb was found on the suburban property owned by Bill and Hillary Clinton. An explosive device was also sent to former President Barack Obama and his wife,former First Lady Michelle Obama. The Secret Service said Obama and Clintondid not receive the packages nor were they at risk of receiving them.Later, CNNs headquarters at the Time Warner Center in New York received a package addressed to former CIA Director John Brennan, himself a noted Trump critic. The building was evacuated.This is a photograph of the suspicious package sent to the CNN building in New York City earlier this morning. Police say it appeared to be a live explosive device. https://t.co/aG9JsTfwhx pic.twitter.com/tcICHJErda— CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk) October 24, 2018These developments unfolded rather rapidly. Soon after, a report surfaced thatRepresentative Debbie Wasserman Schultz also received a package because her office was listed as the return address on a package sent to Eric Holder, the former attorney general. A package sent to California Democratic Representative Maxine Waters was also intercepted, according to ABC.A suspicious package was alsointerceptedat the offices of theSan Diego Union-Tribune, which is near the field office of Senator Kamala Harris, a California Democrat. The San Diego police department closed the downtown area in response; the package contained miscellaneous itemsincluding shoes and childrens booksand law enforcement allowed business to resume as usual. A package sent to theoffice of New York Governor Andrew Cuomowas found to contain only a thumb drive.	Liberal
In an interview withThe Wall Street Journal,President Donald Trump made the erroneous claim that “we don’t have any tariffs.”Now, even Fox is calling him out for it.The network’s research team tweeted a list of complaints from American companies regarding the expenses imposed by the numerous tariffs his administration has enacted and it’s clear they haven’t done the companies any financial favors.Recent Tariff ConcernsFord"US steel most expensive"CaterpillarMaterial costs up  steel prices/tariffsHarley-Davidson2018 tariff costs: $40M+United Tech.2018 tariff costs: $53M3M2019: Costs est. to rise $100MHoneywell2019 potential costs: "Hundreds of millions"— Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) October 24, 2018The president drew widespread criticism after the claim, especially given that he’d touted his tariffs numerous times.Despite numerous economists saying they would reap no economic benefits for the average American, the president seemed convinced.But to some, it was obvious the tariffs were no good.Who knew tariffs cost businesses more to do business.— conservative lady (@suzanne_weimer) October 25, 2018This is why Trump's tarriffs are so shortsighted. US manufacturers are laying people off because their parts are too expensive, and bailouts are going to foreign companies.Did you know we're letting foreign companies drill in national lands now too?Fact: Trump is killing USA— Ninja Corgi (@areyoudrinking) October 23, 2018That's not how tarriffs work. US importers pay a higher tax on imported goods. Making things more expensive for everyone. China, EU, whoever don't pay anything extra. Tarriffs=Inflation and thats enough to crash an economy that's seen stagnant wages for 20 years. https://t.co/xqdqvb19ga— Chandler Wirostek (@CWirostek) October 23, 2018His tariffs made prototyping more expensive for my small business. Donald Trump is a spoiled child with no grasp of economics who managed to lose $400M and has SIX BANKRUPTCIES.— Adam Mikulis  (@adammikulis) October 18, 2018At least one person was surprised that Fox News had been so up-front with the correction.Whoever you are, are you just trying to get fired? Do they have generous severance packages or something?— Contrario (@contario11) October 24, 2018Another person blamed the network for its eagerness to stroke the president’s ego.So stop promoting Trump and his agenda. This is all on him.— Lee in Iowa (@Lee_in_Iowa) October 24, 2018Naturally, Fox News followers still defended the president in their own special way.My business is at a stand still because of the cheap foreign product coming to the US. Tariff everything. I want ti see my business thrive again. Screw you guys that say the tariff is a bad idea. Come to my place and let me show you what it looks like— Frank Raimondi (@fraimondi) October 25, 2018But the financial complaints of the manufacturers listed are more than valid.	Liberal
Senator James Lankford (R-OK) on Thursday tried to equate peaceful protests with the string of attempted bombings that have paralyzed the country since Wednesday.In the wake of nearly a dozen prominent Democrats being targeted by pipe bombs, Lankford said on Fox News that targeting political rivals with terrorism “is not who we are as Americans,” condemning the use of violence as a means to political ends.But it was Lankford’s comparison to the confirmation hearings of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh that have sparked some pretty harsh backlash. Lankford charged that activists disrupting Kavanaugh’s hearings were just as bad as whoever has been mailing bombs to President Donald Trump’s rivals.“It wasn’t appropriate during the hearings to come in and scream at people,” Lankford said. “This is not how we should handle our differences.”Watch the clip below:Unreal — On Fox News, @SenatorLankford draws equivalency between bombs being sent to prominent liberals and protesters during the Kavanaugh hearings."It wasn't appropriate during the hearings to come in and scream at people. This is not how we should handle our differences." pic.twitter.com/2dYu5qUeo8— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) October 25, 2018Lankford cited other instances – such as the shooting of a Congressional baseball game and the intimidation of Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) during the 2016campaign – as other examples of unacceptable behavior.He also said that blaming Trump and his divisive rhetoric for Wednesday’s events is “absurd.”Those who “try to blame President Trump [for the attempted bombings] is absurd,” Lankford added. “We didn’t try to blame Democrats when a shooter came for Republicans on a baseball field.”Watch the clip below:Ignoring that Trump publicly encouraged violence against reporters last week, Sen. Lankford claims that "to try to blame President Trump [for the attempted bombings] is absurd. We didn't try to blame Democrats when a shooter came for Republicans on a baseball field." pic.twitter.com/oSaViKPVWV— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) October 25, 2018Twitter tore into Lankford for the parallels he was drawing.I dont like people getting harassed in public places. But those equating that to sending explosive devices, are being obtuse. One can ruin your meal, the other can injure or kill people.Moreover, one -freedom of speech- is protected by the Constitution, the other IS A CRIME.— Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) October 25, 2018The “whataboutism” – in this case, alluding to protests as if they constitute terror, is galling.Who would have thought 17 years after one of the biggest terror attacks that conservative media would actually justify and play the whataboutism game with an attack on our country.— Remember Helsinki? (@julian_moffit) October 25, 2018Screams are as dangerous as bombs now? Wow! I'm surprised my computer hasn't exploded because I scream at it constantly.— Lola Gayle (@LolaGayleC) October 25, 2018Free speech includes the right to scream. Screaming does not equal bombing..@SenatorLankford needs to be reminded that protesting our elected officials is our democratic right but sending bombs to kill those you disagree with is an act of terrorism and against the law.PERIOD. Theres just no equivalence-#VoteBlueToEndThisNightmare #VoteBlueToSaveAmerica— Proud Liberal (@shewarnedus) October 25, 2018So Lankford thinks that protesting and freedom of speech is the same as sending out a bomb?— Banjo (@Banjo2u) October 25, 2018big difference between attempted Murder with planted Bombs and people verbally protesting, the spin that Republicans put on is a dangerous. they are a National Security Risk— RAY TOPPIN (@TOPPINRAY) October 25, 2018@SenatorLankford is not an honorable man. There is no comparison between protest and mail bombs. You want to see mob behavior, watch a Trump rally. And the worst mobster and inciter of violence is Trump. Deeply ashamed of Langford for not saying so.— RebeccaSWH (@RebeccaSWH) October 25, 2018Hey @Foxnews…..Protesting, Yelling Holding Up signs are NOT Illegal.Sending IED Bombs via Mail, Hand delivery, etc are Illegal.Yelling is Not a death sentence. It might change a vote. It didn't during the Hearings. But IEDs can be a death sentence. Thank Goodness, 0 exploded.— Mary Frank (@Fran_Neena20409) October 25, 2018The double-standard applied to the Kavanaugh hearings is even more disturbing when coupled with the way his accusers were treated.	Liberal
On Thursday, prosecutors in Saudi Arabia announced the death of Saudi citizen and United States resident Jamal Khashoggi was premeditated. This change takes the Washington Post journalist’s death from an accidentas claimed previouslyto murder.President Donald Trump and the Trump administration drew heavy criticism over their response to Khashoggi’s disappearance and subsequent reports of his death. The President and members of the administration faced accusations of aiding the Saudi government over advocating for a resident of the United States.Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul, Turkey. At first the Saudi government reported Khashoggi left the consulate, but Turkish authorities stated they believed the journalist died there.Since their initial response, the Saudi official story continues to evolve, including today’s announcement. Watch a report of the latest information here.Jamal Khashoggis killing was a premeditated crime, Saudi prosecutors say https://t.co/gPz5uZCYP7 pic.twitter.com/XWtCw9fETA Fox News (@FoxNews) October 25, 2018Fox News also outlined the changes in the Saudi story since October 3. They noted:“Khashoggi Murder – shifting statements since disappearance 10/3: MBS says Khashoggi exited consulate…”nothing to hide” 10/12: Saudi official calls murder allegations “lies, baseless” 10/19: Saudis blame “fistfight” for death, say 18 arrested Today: killing was a premeditated crime”Khashoggi Murder -shifting statements since disappearance 10/3: MBS says Khashoggi exited consulate…”nothing to hide” 10/12: Saudi official calls murder allegations “lies, baseless” 10/19: Saudis blame “fistfight” for death, say 18 arrested Today: ?? https://t.co/ku1YwUMNmU Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) October 25, 2018Saudi Attorney General Saud al-Mojeb announced investigators concluded Khashoggi’s killing was a premeditated crime after reviewing evidence presented by Turkish officials as part of a joint investigation.Thursday, Turkey’s foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said at a news conference:“Jamal Khashoggi’s body still hasn’t been found. Where is it?”“There is a crime here, but there is also a humanitarian situation. The family wants to know and they want to perform their last duty.”People were not surprised to see another new version of what happened to Khashoggi and the consulate coming from Saudi Arabia. Nor was the determination of premeditated murder shocking as international sentiment favored the Turkish version of events from the beginning.Duh. Viv Masney (@VivieenGrace) October 25, 2018Which number excuse are we up to now? I can’t keep up. lisa savage (@frequentbuyer1) October 25, 2018And water is wet?? JustSoYouKnow (@ShoalCreek98) October 25, 2018Ya think? Patricia Massino (@PatriciaMassino) October 25, 2018Whhhaatt? No way! Now Im shocked! Mark (@markrmorley) October 25, 2018I wouldve never guessed… FinklesteinSh*tKid (@finklesteinsh) October 25, 2018I still believe he fell and his head fell off clownsrevil1109 (@clownsrevil1109) October 25, 2018Many criticized the United States official response.It took 3 weeks for republicans to understand that this was a pre-planned assassination. 3 WEEKS of ignorance and MAGA MAGA MAGA … disgusting. ?? Mestars ?? (@PhotoMestars) October 25, 2018is trump still saying his Saudi boys are not killers yet or did he change his stand again Jag Sarwara (@JagaJatt) October 25, 2018Are we sure that the saudi murder was not actually done by democrats to make the Trump administration look bad ?? #magabomber ??Randman (@Randy27398597) October 25, 2018Now do Trump’s shifting statements. ?????????? Name is Bishop (@BishesBrew) October 25, 2018While others questioned continued relations between the United States and Saudi Arabia.	Liberal
President Donald Trump amped up his attacks on the media Thursday morning, blaming “fake news” for the anger that has been building among the public.“A very big part of the Anger we see today in our society is caused by the purposely false and inaccurate reporting of the Mainstream Media that I refer to as Fake News,” Trump tweeted. “It has gotten so bad and hateful that it is beyond description. Mainstream Media must clean up its act, FAST!”A very big part of the Anger we see today in our society is caused by the purposely false and inaccurate reporting of the Mainstream Media that I refer to as Fake News. It has gotten so bad and hateful that it is beyond description. Mainstream Media must clean up its act, FAST!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 25, 2018Backlash spread quickly through social media. One prominent voice of opposition, former CIA Director John Brennan, fired back at Trump with some advice: self-respect, man up, and act like a leader.“Stop blaming others. Look in the mirror. Your inflammatory rhetoric, insults, lies, & encouragement of physical violence are disgraceful,” Brennan tweeted to Trump. “Clean up your act….try to act Presidential. The American people deserve much better. BTW, your critics will not be intimidated into silence.”Stop blaming others. Look in the mirror. Your inflammatory rhetoric, insults, lies, & encouragement of physical violence are disgraceful. Clean up your act….try to act Presidential. The American people deserve much better. BTW, your critics will not be intimidated into silence. https://t.co/cS5qNiuU7o— John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) October 25, 2018Twitter followers thanked Brennan for pushing back againstTrump and joined his criticism of the president.Love you Mr. Brennan.  Ty for being outspoken as you are. From a NJ resident.— Dale Horowitz (@dhgritz25) October 25, 2018https://twitter.com/tudorqueenAB/status/1055459591985815553He shall never change or act Presidential, so don't hold your breath folks.— Helen Maria (@BennettHelen2) October 25, 2018Director Brennan, I am sorry your life was threatened.  I am even sorrier that current occupant of the WH cannot put his personal feelings/beliefs/biases aside long enough to offer proper concern to you and the rest of the nation.  I am relieved that you and your family are safe.— Mimi Franco (@MimiFrancoPhoto) October 25, 2018Thank you, sir, for saying what every intelligent, moral American wants said. I think this is all we need to read on Twitter today.— Rebecca Roberts (@rjeanroberts) October 25, 2018#DonTheCon is so full of shit that is frightening. He is a liar, he is a liar, he is a liar. Do you want your children to grow up emulating this president of the United States? If you do then Im glad Im not your kid. it is time to raise our voice louder than his. #VoteBlue2018— Jan Landy (@JanLandy) October 25, 2018Hes a typical #Abuser He abuses people, then plays the victim. All of it for the purpose of #manipulating his base, the U.S. or anyone around him.— Felipe Pia (@FreshPina) October 25, 2018Thank you Sir,Truth matters,words matter.— Lori Dermer (@562Lori) October 25, 2018Thank you John O. Brennan!— Jeff072792 (@jeff072792) October 25, 2018The fool is incapable of being presidential! He has all he can do to be as child like as he is, as our world adversaries play him like a fiddle.  They treat him like an adult treats a child when wanting the child to do something unwittingly,except they use money as the foil-works— stevehurley (@sagamorestah) October 25, 2018Thank you John Brennan for showing dissent will not be silenced.  This is one of the freedoms intelligence officers have risked their lives to protect.   And by the way, people must #VOTE – in large enough numbers to overcome suppression and intimidation.— SpeakOutNow16 (@SpeakOutNow16) October 25, 2018Trump stripped Brennan of his security clearance in August in response to Brennan’s regular critiques of the administration’s policies. Though intelligence officials referred to the revocation as “ill-considered,” Brennan has remained a fiercely vocal opponent to Trump.Brennan was far from the only person tosay that the president is responsible for the mood of the country. 	Liberal
After at least nine homemade pipe bombs were disseminated across the country to President Donald Trump’s enemies,CNN President Jeff Zucker took President Donald Trump and White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders to task for their flippant use of demonizing rhetoric against Democrats and CNN itself.The news network frequently been decried by the president and his supporters, chanting “CNN sucks” at his rallies and ganging up on CNN anchors like Jim Acosta, who was aggressively heckled by Trump supporters at a rally earlier this year. Acosta and other reporters frequently experience derision from the White House and the president himself.Statement from CNN Worldwide President Jeff Zucker: pic.twitter.com/OXyIT6oSLT— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) October 24, 2018Though Sanders condemned the attacks, she launched right back into the rhetoric that many believe could have played a factor in the attempted attacks..@realDonaldTrump asked Americans to come together and send one very clear, strong, unmistakable message that acts or threats of political violence of any kind have no place in the USA Yet you chose to attack and divide. America should unite against all political violence. https://t.co/Dlo3xwHyKi— Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) October 25, 2018Zucker’s network has taken the brunt of the president’s verbal attacks on the so-called “fake news media” since the start of his presidential campaign. He even retweeted a video showing him beating up a body with the CNN logo for a head.#FraudNewsCNN #FNN pic.twitter.com/WYUnHjjUjg— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 2, 2017In her loyalty to the president, Huckabee Sanders has often fallen in line to spread harmful rhetoric about those targeted by the pipe bombs.Now, people are calling her out.https://twitter.com/crystal_kolomas/status/1055440272241426432He blamed CNN and the mainstream media for these bombs. He did it last night and this morning. We all know whose rhetoric needs to change.— brickhouse (@ITMFA17) October 25, 2018This is a very dangerous game you and your administration are playing. If one of these explosives goes off and someone actually gets hurt, the blood is on your hands and that of the entire @GOP . You know that and yet you choose to ignore it.— ALTreclaimedhome (@reclaimedhome) October 25, 2018It appears that Sarah has self-separated from both reality and decency.— Thorman Lungie (@Thorman_Lungie) October 25, 2018Sanders has frequently used the press secretary’s podium as a bullying pulpit, attacking democrats, journalists, and anyone else who dares to call out the president’s actions.	Liberal
During an at times explosive debate between Florida gubernatorial candidates, Republican Ron DeSantis defended his ties to White supremacists, but Democrat Andrew Gillum came back with his Grandmother’s words in rebuttal.The moderatorTodd McDermottoutlined the criticism aimed at DeSantis regarding his ties to different known White supremacists, but before the moderator could get to his question, DeSantis interrupted him.DeSantis asked “how the Hell” he was supposed to know every single statement someone made in response to quotes McDermott read from an organization DeSantis aligned himself with on several occasions. The GOP candidate went on to list his credentials as proof of his character.After DeSantis finished, his Democratic challenger got his chance to respond. Gillum said:“As my grandmother used to say, A hit dog will holler,’ and it hollered through this room.”The colloquial phrase is a regional version of Shakespeare’s more recognized phrase from Hamlet: “the lady doth protest too much, methinks.” The meanings are the same; the more vehement the denial, the more believable the accusation.As McDermott did before him, Gillum outlined additional ties between DeSantis and White supremacists, including some aiding with his campaign. Gillum ended his response by stating:“Now, I’m not calling Mr. DeSantis a racist, I’m simply saying the racists believe he’s a racist.”Gillum shared his rebuttal on his Twitter feed Wednesday night after the debate. Watch his full rebuttal here.As my grandmother used to say  a hit dog will holler. pic.twitter.com/kC34Ldd0is Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) October 25, 2018Feedback for Gillum’s debate comments and his tweet ran positive on Twitter.We cant be afraid to call out what everyone sees. If you dont want to be called a racist then dont be one. TY, future governor Gillum. ?? Gaby Pacheco (@GabyPacheco1) October 25, 2018All you had to do was state the FACTS and DeSantis looked deflated. Theres no tool more powerful than the truth! I hope Florida makes the right choice. Best of luck to you from Mississippi…   ™ (@authentic_april) October 25, 2018pic.twitter.com/cb0YDqVztn Tyler – but wearing an old school hockey mask (@tylersoares) October 25, 2018On this super-odd, super-busy day, I really did not have time to listen to this debate response by Andrew Gillum but, somehow, I’ve listened to it TEN TIMES!! ??????????????#BRAVISSIMO, Mr. Gillum! #BringItHome!! ???????????????????? Vincent Wright ?? (@VincentWright) October 25, 2018Me too! ?? pic.twitter.com/KOftpeAiSC TerminatorLX??????????? (@I_A_D_I) October 25, 2018I feel really good about voting for Gillum, he is just the leader Florida wants and needs.#VoteDem up/down ballotGet JIM CROW LAW out of FL Constitution, VOTE YES #4 Restore voting rights to our fellow Floridians, US citizens!#AMERICA LIVES Shayna (@citizenyid) October 25, 2018Holy shit how do you even continue living when someone hands you an L with that much force. Oh my lord. ?? Marc Skellington ?? (@MarcStraight) October 25, 2018pic.twitter.com/2h5KJZwH7C Ben Crossbones (@BenCrossbones) October 25, 2018Bravo, sir. More democratic politicians should have the confidence, strength, and the directness in response that you showed. Good luck on Nov 6. Aaron Smith (@aaronc_smith) October 25, 2018That’s what we need in the Democratic party right now. Resistance?? (@morovis00687) October 25, 2018How I’m walking to the polls for @AndrewGillum tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/I4Ieem7NtT Burn (@MDiHeartkicks) October 25, 2018Best debate line EVER Brn2RunGirl?? ???? (@TeaRocckanova) October 25, 2018I know he was, and when I watched it on the news they were try not to laugh also. But it was great Lioness Brooks (@tonitina499) October 25, 2018Dunked all over him. pic.twitter.com/n6kVX7VInL Adam Best (@adamcbest) October 25, 2018More than a few hoped for a White House in the Democrat’s future.	Liberal
More Americans are more likely to vote for Democrats than Republicans because of Brett Kavanaugh, the newest Supreme Court justice whom the Senate confirmed earlier this month.A USA Today/Suffolk University poll released on Tuesday found that 35 percent of the country is more inclined to support Democrats in the midterms because of their opposition to Kavanaugh. Twenty-seven percent prefer Republican candidates who voted to confirm Kavanaugh.More than a third of those surveyed – 37 percent – said Kavanaugh would not affect the way they vote.The Kavanaugh effect is also giving Democrats a boost among both men and women. Men are more likely to vote Democratic because of Kavanaugh by a 3-point margin. Democrats hold a 12-point edge with women.The poll also found that Kavanaugh’s confirmation stirred up strong emotions in likely voters. Thirty-three percent said Kavanaugh made them “angry,” 26 percent felt “delighted,” and six percent said Kavanaugh making it to the Court “doesn’t matter one way or the other.”Furthermore, 45 percent felt that Kavanaugh being on the Court is a “bad thing,” compared to 35 percent who think his presence is a “good thing.”Overall, however, the Supreme Court still has the support of most Americans. Fifty-five percent hold a favorable view of the court, the survey found, versus 25 percent who view it unfavorably.The telephone survey polled 1,000 likely voters Thursday through Monday and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.Hope is growing that momentum is swelling behind Democrats – and that it will hold.Praise baby Jesus.— Jonas (@JonasPWerner) October 24, 2018Restores my faith to read this.— Carol Marie (@CarolPenelope) October 25, 2018some piece of positivity— Catharine Trebnick (@ctrebnick) October 25, 2018Get to the polls! #VoteBlueToSaveAmerica #VoteBlue— HSetzler  (@HeatherSetzler) October 25, 2018Kavanaugh inspired me to donate to McCaskill, Heitkamp and Collins 2020 opponent.— Mary Ann Maibor (@mamlicsw) October 24, 2018I needed to hear this today. I just dont have a good feeling about the mid terms because of all the deception and no consequences.— Sarah21 (@mimix3) October 24, 2018Oh, thank goodness— david (@dteeter63) October 24, 2018Anger is more motivating than contentment it seems!— Beautiful Mind (@SeattleSportsPT) October 24, 2018GOP has set us back decades with fear,lies,greed,corruption! Sick of old white men running America! Enough is enough! We need young,diverse, intelligent men &women w/integrity  Vote like your life depends on it! @BetoORourke Vote Blue #VoteEarly #VoteBlueToSaveAmerica— kimberly Amis (@AmisKcamis) October 24, 2018The poll blasts a big hole in the narrative being spun by the White House.	Liberal
Fox News attempted to characterize Hillary Clinton’s reaction to yesterday’s bomb threats as hypocritical by repurposing a remark she made earlier this month regarding civility. It didn’t go well.It all started when Fox News Research, the network’s research and analytics team, issued the following tweet.   :"You cannot be civil with a political party that wants to destroy what you stand for, what you care about." :"It's a time of deep divisions and we have to do everything we can to bring our country together." https://t.co/4Dkmondb2z— Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) October 24, 2018“You cannot be civil with a political party that wants to destroy what you stand for, what you care about,” Clinton said in an interview with CNN on October 9, adding that civility could only be preserved if Democrats win back the House and the Senate.But Clinton contradicted herselfat least in the world according to Fox News. Speaking yesterday after authorities discovered a live explosive on her suburban property, Clinton said:“It’s a time of deep divisions and we have to do everything we can to bring our country together.”The tweet wants us to ask ourselves: How could the same woman advocate for uncivility only to call for unity mere weeks later?It’s worth examining the context, however. Clinton, on October 9, pointed out that “the only thing that the Republicans seem to recognize and respect is strength,” and criticized “hardball tactics” from the Republican Party which can only be addressed by winning elections and creating a balance of power:“I remember what they did to me for 25 years — the falsehoods, the lies, which unfortunately people believe because the Republicans have put a lot of time, money, and effort in promoting them.So when you’re dealing with an ideological party that is driven by the lust for power, that is funded by corporate interests who want a government that does its bidding, it’s — you can be civil, but you can’t overcome what they intend to do unless you win elections.”There’s a stark difference between winning elections and calling for murder, which many of Fox News’s critics felt inclined to remind the network about.Wow, this is so irresponsible. Youshouldbe sanctioned or something. Hillary Clinton was not calling for violence and murder. There truly is a sickness in you.— Celia (@starksalt) October 25, 2018Time to feed red meat to the base. HRC is Faux News best distraction tool. They pull her out every time they need to distract from Trumps failure of leadership. Or decency. Or humanity. Or kindess. Or…oh you get the point.— Karla Johnson (@Karla67Karla) October 25, 2018These are not contrary statements. We do need to unite AND that wont be possible with the @gops current level of hatred, racism, fearmongering, and aversion to truth and reality.— Avi Silverman  (@Avi_Silverman_) October 25, 2018Protesting your senator's vote is totally the same as mailing someone a bomb— Lasun Omonile (@LasunOmonile) October 24, 2018Because #Trump incites violence (eg applauding a congressman for an assault) it is OK to criticize Republicans who condone this behavior when they are dining. She never applauded violence. Anyone supporting Trump's words in the past should think about your silence— robert duboff (@robertduboff) October 24, 2018As many pointed out, President Donald Trump has been criticized for advocating violence at his rallies and for making inflammatory statements to rile up his base, and now one of his past comments has come back to haunt him.	Liberal
After a series of failed bombing attempts on President Donald Trump’s political rivals stunned the nation on Wednesday, Trump condemned acts of political violence and urged the country to “unify.”“In these times, we have to unify,” Trump said at a press conference. “We have to come together and send a very clear, strong, unmistakable message that acts or threats of political violence of any kind have no place in the United States of America.Watch the clip below:Trump today: We have to unify and send a clear message that acts or threats of political violence have no place in the United States of America.Trump last week, praising Rep. Greg Gianforte for assaulting a reporter: Any guy that can do a body slam, hes my kind of guy. pic.twitter.com/QaS69fgwHM— Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) October 24, 2018Trouble is, Trump has often encouraged using violence as a means to partisan ends.And people shared them, reminding the President of how he truly feels about inciting violence against political enemies:"Id like to punch him in the face""Maybe he should have been roughed up""Part of the problem…is no one wants to hurt each other anymore""I dont know if Ill do the fighting myself or if other people will""The audience hit back. Thats what we need a little bit more of" https://t.co/MN9Hjviek3— Peter Bondi (@pbondi) October 24, 2018"If you do (hurt him), Ill defend you in court, dont worry about it""Ill beat the crap out of you""Knock the crap out of him, would you? I promise you, I will pay your legal fees"Donald Trump, reacting to political protest.— Peter Bondi (@pbondi) October 24, 2018"I love the old days. You know what they used to do to guys like that when they were in a place like this? They'd be carried out on a stretcher, folks."  Feb 2016— BeaglesResist (@BeaglesResist) October 24, 2018And there was this just last week:Trump praised Montana Rep. Greg Gianforte for body slamming a journalist five days ago, saying that anyone who did such a thing was my kind of guy. https://t.co/6GJOy8MS0b— Ken Fitzgerald (@loudlong) October 24, 2018Perhaps a cartoon is more the President’s speed: pic.twitter.com/3WxUriCyWW— Mike Morris (@1MikeMorris) October 24, 2018Or a Powerpoint? pic.twitter.com/izmBmtGxfk— Midwesternmama2 (@MidwesternMama2) October 24, 2018And who can forget this classic:This is the environment he created. pic.twitter.com/yxP7h4o3U4— Andrew S. Williams (@journeysincolor) October 24, 2018"If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know."— Martin Krger (@martinkroeger) October 24, 2018Oh, and this:Dont forget Trumps tweeting of a video in which he physically attacks a person who is supposed to be CNN. pic.twitter.com/lAyd7OwMJ2— Empire Storm (@empirestatemind) October 24, 2018Here’s a helpful compilation:Trump just said, "Acts or threats of political violence of any kind have no place in the United States of America."Here are some other things Trump has said: pic.twitter.com/lSQrylR7UP— Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) October 24, 2018So, yeah, Twitter felt the President’s words rang a bit hollow.	Liberal
Beginning with an explosive device sent to financier and Democratic donor George Soros, multiple additional bomb threats were identified. The later bombs and suspicious packages also targeted Democratic leaders or critics of President Donald Trump.Law enforcement verified bomb threats against former President Barack Obama, presidential candidate and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, California Representative Maxine Waters, Representative and former DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and CNN broadcasting in New York City.Those watching CNN’s live broadcast heard alarms going off and personnel being evacuated from the building.Here’s the moment CNN had to handoff to DC and evacuate Time Warner Center in New York pic.twitter.com/TUtnWrss9z Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) October 24, 2018And here’s Rene Marsh on the air in DC after the commercial break while Time Warner Center was being evacuated pic.twitter.com/H25XPXPRx0 Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) October 24, 2018Poppy Harlow and Jim Sciutto now back on CNN live from their cellphones while evacuating and being moved further away from Time Warner Center by NYPD pic.twitter.com/sYSAciHl90 Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) October 24, 2018Given the targets, many point to the GOP and Trump administration as inciting violence among their supporters. CNN is a frequent target for President Trump and members of the GOP referenced Soros as financing any protests against Trump or their policies.During his Make America Great Again rallies, Trump still leads chants of “lock her up” against private citizen, Hillary Clinton. He also attacks Obama and other Democratic leaders in his rallies and his Twitter feed.But one of Trump’s fervent supporters, conservative pundit Candace Owens, tried to engage in victim blaming on Twitter Wednesday to deflect criticism from Trump. Wednesday afternoon, Owens tweeted:Im going to go ahead and state that there is a 0% chance that these ‘suspicious packages’ were sent out by conservatives. The only thing ‘suspicious’ about these packages, is their timing. Caravans, fake bomb threatsthese leftists are going ALL OUT for midterms.Im going to go ahead and state that there is a 0% chance that these suspicious packages were sent out by conservatives.The only thing suspicious about these packages, is their timing.Caravans, fake bomb threatsthese leftists are going ALL OUT for midterms. Candace Owens (@RealCandaceO) October 24, 2018While Owens is not the only conservative floating conspiracy theories and further targeting the victims with their allegations, people showed no tolerance for her ploy.Wow. A former president, First Lady, Holocaust survivor & many journalists could have DIED today & this is what you choose to tweet. #GarbageHuman tara strong (@tarastrong) October 24, 2018And countless postal workers who handled them. auntie loca (@auntie_loca) October 24, 2018Does hanging around Charlie Kirk make you an expert in suspicious packages? AltSpaceForce ?????? (@AltSpaceForce1) October 24, 2018Girl shut up erin with cat ears ryan (@morninggloria) October 24, 2018Now thats a new level of crazy, shamelessness, and deceit. You need to take a breather CandyO and think about what you said. Its breathtakingly awful. KnitLeft (@mbbosco7004) October 24, 2018Well, since you live an entirely fact-free existence, you go right on ahead and state whatever you want. We see you. Meanwhile, in Reality World, law enforcement has already confirmed that these “suspicious packages” were functional bombs, and appear to be from the same source. John Memmer (@TheRepressedOne) October 24, 2018https://t.co/8l5wFViEI3 John Memmer (@TheRepressedOne) October 24, 2018“All the confirmed bombs appeared to come from the same person or persons, said John Miller, the New York Police Department’s head of intelligence and counterterrorism, who briefed reporters in New York.” John Memmer (@TheRepressedOne) October 24, 2018Oh BSStrange isnt it that illegal immigration was at a 40 yr low under Obama, but now just before elections its having a HUGE rise under 45?Isnt that convenient way to deflect from bad policy, hide murderers, & then GOP can blame Dems?Fascism is good at that, so is 45. Didi (@nbkdsm2) October 24, 2018pic.twitter.com/CzH7mTu72w  (@lumaria) October 24, 2018People also called out Owens over her comments about the Honduran migrant caravan.	Liberal
In the middle of a hectic news day, the President’s favorite new source, Fox News, made a typo (or Freudian slip?) in a news alert that couldn’t have been more unfortunate.It came during reports that numerous nemeses of President Donald Trump and the Republican Party received or were meant to receive pipe bombs or other suspicious packages in the mail. The would-be recipients included former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Former President Barack Obama, and Donald Trump’s least favorite news network: CNN.In addition to the device, it’s been reported that the package sent to CNN also contained a mysterious white powder.Andthisis where Fox News should have proofread more carefully.Excuse me? @FoxNews White Power #FoxNews pic.twitter.com/nuHsPCUGFg— Jonah (@BookofJonah) October 24, 2018“White power” is a rallying cry for white supremacists used to intimidate those who don’t meet their genetic or cultural criteria.Fox News Channel – which many believe to be more of a Republican mouthpiece than an actual news network – has often been criticized for its lack of diversity, its racist reporting, and the many Trump supporting hosts (like Sean Hannity) to whom it gives air time.People pounced on the mishap.Like Fox News would ever find White Power 'suspicious'— Fluff-o-Lantern (@FluffyLib) October 24, 2018@FoxNews when you type white power so often your auto correct goes right to it pic.twitter.com/5odxtNskrn— David Q Pumpkins (@timnaft) October 24, 2018@FoxNews  white power ? Im sure it was a white power person though pic.twitter.com/bCvohaodhs— Rob (@robelliott6) October 24, 2018Fox News had white power on its mind pic.twitter.com/rPI7z1vDYj— Miss Texas 1967 (@MsTexas1967) October 24, 2018The idea that Fox News of all networks would make this mistake is, unfortunately, not too far-fetched.	Liberal
Earlier today, amid reports that an individual or individuals had sent explosive devices to the homes of prominent Democratic politicians and to the offices of several news organizations around the country, Ivanka Trump condemned these actions, saying that “America is better than this.”I strongly condemn the attempted acts of violence against President Obama, the Clinton family, @CNN & others. There is no excuseAmerica is better than this. Gratitude to the @SecretService and law enforcement for all they do to keep this nation safe.— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) October 24, 2018Ivanka, who is perhaps her father President Donald Trump’s most trusted personal adviser, thanked the Secret Service and law enforcement for their work “to keep this nation safe,” but her statement rang hollow for MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough, the host ofMorning Joe, who asked if she “strongly” condemns statements made by her father at his rally which have specifically targeted individuals and entities who were targeted today, including news network CNN and Hillary Clinton, who ran against him during the 2016 presidential election.Do you strongly condemn your father using the presidential bully pulpit and years of campaign rallies to constantly stir up hatred against CNN, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama? https://t.co/9D8pov74YX— Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) October 24, 2018And he wasn’t the only one to express similar sentiments. Many noted that the president has not condemned today’s acts of violence. The president has, to name just a few examples, called for violence against members of the press, has labeled the press “the enemy of the people,” and has repeatedly led chants at his rallies to “lock up” Hillary Clinton.Hey @IvankaTrump your dad eats this shit up. He incites violence in a daily basis.  So until your father is out of office, no, America isnt better than this. https://t.co/lS1Siu9hGV— Rachel Dratch (@TheRealDratch) October 24, 2018Has @IvankaTrump denounced @realDonaldTrump's encouragement of the "lock her up" chant? If not, she should keep quiet, move along, and spare us any phony concern. https://t.co/1w7c20CRQC— David Corn (@DavidCornDC) October 24, 2018https://twitter.com/ProudResister/status/1055124969535889408Responses to Ivanka Trump’s initial tweet also indicate a common trend:This is your fathers America, and it is not better than this.— Christie (@Christie_D22) October 24, 2018Though I am sure you think your mesaage is well intended, these actions are a direct response to your father's rhetoric and behavior, so there really is nothing you can say here that is of any worth. Your words are wisps of vapor blown by the stench of hatred born of #trump.— Kim Possible (@ResistanceRuby) October 24, 2018If only you knew an important, not impotent, man of power and courage that could speak out against these acts with sincerity and conviction.  Perhaps you could rent one.— Ee Oulo #iDoCareWhyDon'tUSA!? (@Ee_Oulo) October 24, 2018The president is still scheduled to appear at a rally in Wisconsin later this evening.Speaking at an event to address the nation’s opioid crisis, he called for unity, saying: “I just want to tell you that in these times we have to unify, we have to come together and send one very clear, strong, unmistakable message that acts or threats of political violence of any kind have no place in the United States of America.”“The safety of the American people is my highest and absolute priority,” he added, promising that the governmentwill “bring those responsible forthese despicable acts tojustice.”These comments haven’t gone over very well with people who noted that last week the president praised Montana Representative Greg Gianforte for assaulting a reporter.Trump today: We have to unify and send a clear message that acts or threats of political violence have no place in the United States of America.Trump last week, praising Rep. Greg Gianforte for assaulting a reporter: Any guy that can do a body slam, hes my kind of guy. pic.twitter.com/QaS69fgwHM— Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) October 24, 2018	Liberal
The campaign to re-elect President Donald Trump in 2020 sent a deceptive email to supporters in which Trump pledges to match donations made to his campaign to help Republicans in the midterms.The subject line read, “I’m MATCHING contributions,” followed by a message for his base.“I WILL NOT LET THE RADICAL DEMOCRATS WIN,” the email stated.“I AM MAKING A TRANSFER TO MATCH $3 MILLION WORTH OF GRASSROOTS CONTRIBUTIONS TO DEFEAT THE DEMOCRATS IN JUST 14 DAYS.”Donors are encouraged to give $5-10, which Trump promises to match “dollar-for-dollar,” to “protect our majority and defeat the Democrats.”INTERESTING: President TRUMP, who hasn't contributed a penny to his campaign since taking office, pledges in a fundraising email to "match" $3M worth of grassroots donations to his campaign ahead of the midterms. Yet another first for a sitting president in the modern era. pic.twitter.com/a2bxiMN7Jp— Kenneth P. Vogel (@kenvogel) October 23, 2018On Wednesday, Ken Vogel of the New York Times reported that Trump has no intention of donating any of his own money. Rather, the president plans on transferring the money his campaign receives to the Republican National Committee.UPDATE: The TRUMP campaign tells me that @POTUS is NOT going to donate any of his own $ to his campaign, despite emailing donors asking them to "make a contribution of $5  & I will MATCH it dollar-for-dollar."Apparently that refers to him transferring DONOR $ to the RNC. pic.twitter.com/dGjoG1GXht— Kenneth P. Vogel (@kenvogel) October 24, 2018Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me, right?That’s the mood on Twitter, where people are convinced that Trump’s most ardent fans either won’t realize or care that they’re being duped.He lies right to his donors and they likely still wont care.— JGutierrezKrueger (@jolinegkg) October 24, 2018Trump's supporters already knows that he lies. They don't care. He lies for their agenda and somehow that makes it alright for them.— Pet Wisdom for Life (@SDWisdom) October 24, 2018surprise! another lie from trump about spending his own money…this after RNC has spent a fortune at trump properties— doreen anderson (@batlaw55) October 24, 2018Wow, the poor people who fall for this bull****And it is the financially less well off that will swallow it, donate and likely never know this was a con from the con kingThis is disgraceful— GlynisMJenkins (@SereneAbbigail) October 24, 2018Liar gonna lie.— T.I. (@Sliver_70) October 24, 2018Wow, the president lied? Shocked— scary october pun (@Bigfarts420) October 24, 2018Social media tore into Trump’s secretive finances.	Liberal
It’s nothing unusual for President Donald Trump to lie, but every now and then, one whopper is so bald-faced that even a jaded public is shocked.This week’s came in an interview with theWall Street Journal.The president discussed a number of issues from the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi to disdain for the Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, but his false statements on the tariffs he’s imposed and subsequently touted raised eyebrows everywhere.We dont even have tariffs. Im using tariffs to negotiate…Where do we have tariffs? We dont have tariffs anywhere.Even Daniel Dale, a reporter for theToronto Starwho often fact checks the president, was flabbergasted.This is one of the wildest Trump lies of his presidency. He told the Wall Street Journal that the tariffs he has imposed and bragged about do not actually exist: https://t.co/4lHm75uXW0 pic.twitter.com/DAkJ8iD97b— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 24, 2018In reality, Trump has granted a number of tariffs, perhaps most notably against China, where the president implemented tariffs on over $200 billion worth of goods, leading some to fear a trade war. He has also imposed tariffs on metal imports from Canada, Mexico, and the European Union. What’s more, the president has openly bragged about these tariffs numerous times.Tariffs are working far better than anyone ever anticipated. China market has dropped 27% in last 4months, and they are talking to us. Our market is stronger than ever, and will go up dramatically when these horrible Trade Deals are successfully renegotiated. America First…….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 4, 2018Our Country was built on Tariffs, and Tariffs are now leading us to great new Trade Deals – as opposed to the horrible and unfair Trade Deals that I inherited as your President. Other Countries should not be allowed to come in and steal the wealth of our great U.S.A. No longer!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 15, 2018Even as recently as yesterday.Billions of dollars are, and will be, coming into United States coffers because of Tariffs. Great also for negotiations – if a country wont give us a fair Trade Deal, we will institute Tariffs on them. Used or not, jobs and businesses will be created. U.S. respected again!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 23, 2018People were pretty stunned, and Preet Bharara spoke for many when he tweeted simply:?? https://t.co/IzWzSaiOAi— Preet Bharara (@PreetBharara) October 24, 2018People are calling Trump out.At what point do his lies become delusions?— Greg (@all_outta_gum) October 24, 2018I wish everyone else would see that your page didn't self-destruct because you used the word "lie". It's the most appropriate word to use in most cases.— Ashley (@AshleyJRMC) October 24, 2018"We don't have tariffs anywhere," Trump, who has imposed steel and aluminium tariffs on Canada and most of the rest of the world, claims in a WSJ interview. What is even the point of lying about this? pic.twitter.com/PwXjXnfSyK— Adrian Morrow (@AdrianMorrow) October 24, 2018When you repeatedly start a reply and then realize that there simply are no more words left to properly express your bewilderment with this man— Gnral Pattn (@GeneralTPatten) October 24, 2018And while the president may believe that tariffs are a good negotiating tactic, economists say that they could ultimately do more harm than good.	Liberal
On Tuesday night, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to let his followers know he agreed with President Obama. With his tweet, he included a 2005 31 second video clip of then Senator Barack Obama.The 44th President spoke about immigration in the clip. Then Illinois Senator Obama stated:“We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected, undocumented, unchecked and circumventing the line of people who are waiting patiently, diligently and lawfully to become immigrants into this country.”The 45th President captioned his Twitter post:“I agree with President Obama 100%!”Watch the video clip here.I agree with President Obama 100%! pic.twitter.com/PI3aW1Zh5Q Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 23, 2018While Trump tried to portray Obama’s comments as being in line with the Trump administration and GOP’s hardline immigration policy, Obama’s full remarks outlined the Democratic Party’s longtime official stance on immigration.And much like the Bible, cherry-picking a few sentences from any content allows people to morph the actual message to meet their personal agenda. Love equals hate, peace equals war and sensible immigration regulations equal family separation policies.So what was Obama talking about in Trump’s out of context video clip?The clip is a brief excerpt from a 27 minute long press conference from 2005 where Obama represented the Democrats and former Florida Republican Senator Mel Martinez represented the GOP. And while Kellyanne Conway called Obama’s snippet “delicious” while she sat on the Fox & Friends couch Wednesday morning, it is doubtful she would find the 44th President’s full statement quite so tasty.Obama stated the official DNC stance in the 2005 clip Trump sharedthat immigration must be regulated and managedbut then he added the other tenets of DNC immigration policy. After the Trump clip abruptly stops, Obama said:“Having said that, securing the borders alone does not solve immigration management. Were going to have to better manage legal immigration in order to end illegal immigration. ... Right now weve got millions of illegal immigrants who live and work here without knowing their identity or background.”“Thats part of the reason we need a guest worker program to replace the flood of illegals with a regulated stream of legals who enter the United States after checks and with access to labor rights.”Finally, Obama added what he deemed the most important aspect of immigration reform.“If we hope to bring the 11 million existing undocumented workers out of the shadows into the open, we have to give them a reason. I am sympathetic, and I understand peoples frustrations with respect to those who have come here illegally, but we have to understand that they are now here, they are paying taxes, they are raising families, many of their children are U.S. citizens who were born here and are going to school here, and if we are going to get some handle on that population, then weve got to give them some incentive in order to come out into the open.“This means that were going to have to grant them some sort of interim legal status to work with the opportunity to eventually earn citizenship.”While the full meaning of then Senator Obama’s 2005 statement eluded Trump and Conway, their agreeing 100% with the Democratic stance on immigration would simplify immigration reform that remains at a standstill for decades over partisan politics.People were quick to point out Trump discredited his own claims about the DNC wanting “open borders” by sharing an excerpt of the DNC immigration stance.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Tuesday admitted he has no evidence substantiating his claims that “Middle Easterners” have embedded themselves in migrant caravans meandering through Central America.Trump told reporters in the Oval Officehe has “very good information”regarding the types of people he believes are sneaking into migrant refugee caravans.The press tried to get the president to pony up some evidence, but this is Trump we’re dealing with, so there isn’t any.“There’s no proof of anything but there very well could be.”The president said he speaks with Border Patrol “all the time,” touting the agency’s ability to “intercept” certain individuals.“Over the course of the year, over the course of a number of years, they have intercepted many people from the Middle East,” Trump said. “They have intercepted ISIS. They have intercepted all sorts of people. They have intercepted good ones and bad ones. They have intercepted wonderful people from the Middle East. And they have intercepted bad ones.”Trump added that Border Patrol had “very recently” identified “people from the Middle East,” and that the press “shouldn’t be surprised” when he says it because “you’ve heard that before, it happens all the time.”Watch the full clip below:Pres. Trump claims he has "very good information" there are "people from the Middle East" in migrant caravan, but says "there's no proof of anything, but there very well could be." https://t.co/9WDSoU9AA6 pic.twitter.com/CnwHwYZRcV— ABC News (@ABC) October 24, 2018No one – including Trump – seems to know what the president is talking about because there isn’t any proof.So hes got very good information but hes got no proof..so which is it?— Robert (@Robrulesall2) October 24, 2018Even at face value, the idea that Middle Eastern people have infiltrated bands of Central and South American refugees simply doesn’t make any sense.What's further south than South America? They intercepting immigrants from Antarctica now?— Jorge Ribs (@jorgeRibs) October 24, 2018There very well could be witches, warlocks, and bears traveling with them. There is no proof though. Because there aren't.— Cathy Landon (@catzsparkles) October 24, 2018Theyve intercepted people from South America, and from other parts further south… Please #POTUS tell me more about the people they have intercepted south of South America. See attached map for assistance. pic.twitter.com/votf5zmWZ3— Jessie Caruso (@Jessie_Caruso) October 24, 2018@realDonaldTrump  please do tell us more…#LiarInChief— John E Kutinac (@JohnEKutinac) October 24, 2018Wow! Further south than South America! Penguins? They will be noticed.— Coutts Coot (@CouttsCoot) October 24, 2018@realDonaldTrump using lots of words to say nothing of substance as usual. pic.twitter.com/ZDPDqfQtXk— Charles (@A_CueM_AN_e) October 24, 2018Theres no proof that tRump has the mental capability of a six-year-old but theres always that possibility.— Dave Kane (@davekane11) October 24, 2018There might be the worlds greatest physicists too. Or the second greatest composer in the world. Who knows? Who could tell?— Steve Kusaba (@MusicalKasparov) October 24, 2018Whatis obvious, however, is Trump using fear of “the other” as a dog whistle for his supporters.More fear mongering of unknown people In this group of people.— Jason Habbal (@JasonHabbal) October 24, 2018This is part of your FEAR AND HATRED campaign— Erich Baier (@ErichBaier1) October 24, 2018There could be people fleeing poverty too but lets just assume they are all bad guys.— Teresa H (@Twinkie599) October 24, 2018…And obviously, we should be worried, because all brown people are bad. — Paul Serafini (@SoteraConsult) October 24, 2018Vice President Mike Pence threw his weight behind Trump’s claims, but justlike his boss, offered no evidence.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders has come under fire after using her professional Twitter account to characterize Democrats as a “liberal mob” and make blanket statements on immigration policy.The Democrats open border policy is an open invitation to the caravan. Thank God we have a President fighting for the rule of law and willing to stand up to the liberal mob trying to unleash chaos across our country— Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) October 24, 2018Sanders’s comments come amid reports that a caravan of thousands of refugees is migrating through Central America to the United States. The Trump administration has not settled on a plan of action if the migrants make it to our nation’s southern border.Sanders was immediately criticized for her comments.Honestly, I would trade you, this administration, the Republican Congress, and 7000 other despicable republicans at random to give those desperate people the safety they need. You have children. Be better than this.— Vote November 6th (@samisblond) October 24, 2018So I'm trying to understand why you are lying?  I though you were Christian? Or am I mistaken? I know of absolutely no democrats who want "open borders."  Shame on you for lying in order to further your political cause.— Theresa Ikstrums (@Seattlegirl59) October 24, 2018So why can't we have a press secretary who uses her platform to tell the truth instead of Hatch Act violating campaign lies? And trust that God abandoned your party when you elected an evil leader.— Mary L. Doyle (@MLDoyleauthor) October 24, 2018There literally are no democrats who advocate an open border, let alone any policy that promotes it. This tweet is a 100% lie and you know it.— David Jewberg (at last) (@opiateofblame) October 24, 2018Another individual pointed out that concerns about the caravan are overblown; the caravan is crossing into Mexico, not the United States. The chances that migrants make it to the U.S. border are low to begin withit would take about two more months of travel (if not more) before they even arrive.I know geography is hard, but they're crossing into Mexico, not the US. The US is another 2+ month trip, which is why most historically don't make it here. This tweet is disgraceful, even by current White House standards (or lack thereof). pic.twitter.com/UmcDnUk1JM— Lindsey (@LindseyNowak1) October 24, 2018Trump administration officials who spoke to the press on condition of anonymity saythey’ve been “evaluating the options in closed-door meetings that have gotten increasingly heated in the past week,” including one which turned into a “shouting match,” according to CNBC.Sanders herself downplayed reports that tensions had risen among senior members of the administration and shifted blame to the Democrats, saying:“While we are passionate about solving the issue of illegal immigration, we are not angry at one another. However, we are furious at the failure of Congressional Democrats to help us address this growing crisis.”	Liberal
In September, President Donald Trump held a Make America Great Again rally in Las Vegas, Nevada. He also stumped for GOP candidates in the state, including the Nevada Attorney General and Republican candidate for Governor, Adam Laxalt.Trump also tweeted his endorsement for gubernatorial candidate Laxalt. Twice.Once in June…I strongly endorse Adam Laxalt for Governor of Nevada. Adam is smart, works hard, and knows how to win. He will be a great Governor. Also, will fight hard to lower your taxes and is tough on crime! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 12, 2018…and again in October prior to a second Trump rally that was held in Elko, Nevada.Heading to Nevada to help a man who has become a good friend, Senator Dean Heller. He is all about #MAGA and I need his Help and Talent in Washington. Also, Adam Laxalt will be a GREAT GOVERNOR, and has my complete and total Endorsement. Winners Both! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 20, 2018But not everyone is endorsing Laxalt. In fact, one group that strongly opposes Adam Laxalt for Governor surprised people when they voiced their opposition in an OpEd in the Reno Gazette Journal.Twelve members of candidate Laxalt’s family wrote why they think he is not the right person to be Nevada’s Governor. Their main concern?Adam Laxalt did not grow up and rarely spent any time in Nevada until he decided to begin his political career. His family began their OpEd stating:“The decision to write this column has not been an easy one for us. We are writing as members of the Laxalt family who have spent our lives in Nevada, and feel compelled to protect our family name from being leveraged and exploited by Adam Laxalt, the Republican candidate for governor.”“Like most Nevadans, the idea of family is important to us, and we are proud of the history that our family has in our state. The first generation of Laxalts came to Nevada as immigrants 100 years ago, and their children went on to be parts of the Nevada communityas politicians and writers and teachers and in many other ways.”“Over the years, weve always supported our family, even when we havent always agreed with them or their politics. But as this Election Day nears, we feel compelled to speak publicly about why we believe that Adam Laxalt is the wrong choice for Nevadas governorship.”“There are many specific, well-documented reasons why we believe this to be the case.”Laxalt’s family began with their primary concern, his lack of connection to Nevada.“First, for those of us who were actually raised in Nevada, its difficult to hear him continue to falsely claim that he was raised in Nevada or has any true connections to Nevadans. The simple fact is that while he may have been born in Reno, he left as an infant and was raised on the East Coast, 3,000 miles away, in Washington, D.C., and moved here only in 2013, only one year later launching his political career.”“Aside from the occasional short visit, Adam never knew the state or its people. Perhaps if he had, he would stand for Nevadas values rather than for those of his out-of-state donors.”Later in their OpEd, they reiterated their point by stating:“[Adam Laxalt] moved to Nevada in 2013 so that he could lean on the reputation of a family that he hardly knew while tapping into support by donors who had no interest in our state or its people.”The GOP candidate’s family then criticized their relatives sincerity.	Liberal
Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp is terrified of Americans who exercise their right to vote, according to an audio tape obtained by Rolling Stone.Kemp, a Republican, is locked in a tight race for Georgia’s governorship against Democrat Stacey Abrams. As secretary of state, he isn’t just a candidate; he’s overseeing his state’s election process.Rolling Stone reported on Tuesday that an attendee of the “Georgia Professionals for Kemp” event at Atlanta’sBlind Pig Parlour Bar last Friday recorded Kemp expressing dismay over high voter turnout.Kemp lamented “the literally tens of millions of dollars that they [the Abrams camp] are putting behind the get-out-the-vote effort to their base,” and that Abrams may have an edge because of absentee ballots.They have just an unprecedented number of that, said Kemp, Which is something that continues to concern us, especially if everybody uses and exercises their right to vote  which they absolutely can  and mail those ballots in, we gotta have heavy turnout to offset that.Listen to the full recording below.Rolling Stone was able to confirm the source’s attendance at Kemp’s campaign fundraiser through donation records.Kemp’s glaring conflict of interest has a lot of people concerned over how fair Georgia’s election really is.So anybody doubt anymore what Brian Kemp is trying to do? He said it himself!!!! This is the GOP planstop non white people from voting with facially neutral procedures that, in fact, are targeted to non white voters. Its disgusting. https://t.co/x9JGETWcKm— Richard Yeselson (@yeselson) October 23, 2018.@BrianKempGA will your forthcoming memoir be called MEIN KEMP?— Matthew Snopenhauer (@monkeymarv) October 23, 2018Hey @BrianKempGA I hear you don't like it when people exercise their democratic right to vote?— The October Geek (@mjsoctober) October 23, 2018Georgians exercising their right to vote? The horror!Georgias vote-suppressing Brian Kemp is unworthy of his office.What do you call a team that can only win by cheating? https://t.co/8lsFqh7lph— Dr. Elizabeth Rose (@DrElizabethRose) October 23, 2018It is not my policies that are wrong, but these pesky voters.  This has become the Republican way. pic.twitter.com/Genk6hBxqC— Rino Sanchez (@rabinabo) October 23, 2018Politician fear opposing voters will show up to vote. Not sure this is something new— M Gardner (@Engerlandm8) October 23, 2018Kemp isn’t making many friends.Brian Kemp Is completely disgusting and corrupt. https://t.co/L5ADpu1zDu— John R Huber (@johnrhuber55) October 23, 2018Brian Kemp is concerned that so many people are exercising their right to vote.— Coltrane Decker (@ColtraneDecker) October 23, 2018If the Kemp recording is legit, it certainly doesn't help his argument that there's nothing anti-democratic in his office's voter-rolls cull. https://t.co/vfhCLiGq44— Tim Rostan. (@mrtgr) October 23, 2018In case you're still wondering what all the fuss about voter purges and revoked registration is all about – the GOP cannot win a fair fight, and they know it. @BrianKempGA is a criminal and should resign. https://t.co/xkdlMTL9no— Jont (@jontlewis) October 23, 2018Hey @BrianKempGA maybe you should be willing to win or lose fair and square.— souven (@mylenemoreno) October 23, 2018Winning or losing fair and square is at the heart of the that has become Georgia’s election.	Liberal
On Monday night, former Republican Congressman Joe Scarborough took to Twitter to post an excerpt from the United States Office of Strategic Services (OSS) report on dictator Adolph Hitler. The OSS was the WWII precursor to the CIA and NSA.In the OSS psychological profile of Hitler, they described the head of the NAZI party with the classic traits of a person withnarcissistic personality disorder. While anyone can display some degree of any of the traits of a narcissist, the diagnosis of the personality disorder is rare and requires a specific rigid set of personality traits that the person refuses to deviate from.Scarboroughwho now works as a host of Morning Joe on MSNBCtweeted:“‘His primary rules were: never allow the public to cool off; never admit a fault or wrong; never concede that there may be some good in your enemy; never accept blame; people will believe a big lie sooner than a little one; repeat it frequently enough people will believe it’.”“Hitler’s psychological profile in a report prepared during the war by the United States Office of Strategic Services.”People immediately made comparisons to another world leader.Whats more worrisome….that POTUS embodies so much of that profile, or that so many people (Congress) are seemingly going along? Phil Christian (@pdcIV) October 23, 2018At some point, the choice is simple Authoritarian autocratic leader that McConnell enables with no negotiations with the minority party or save Liberal Democracy. The old GOP is gone replaced with the far right. Cloudydays16 (@cloudydays1971) October 23, 2018pic.twitter.com/3ITKYTIaJV Mary (@maryjan914) October 23, 2018Many pointed out, that while Scarborough made certain not to personally point any fingers, others had.Its the same old hate. Its the same old call to arms, as Hitler was guilty of. Great article by @Stonekettle! A must read for anyone who may doubt that Trump is working the Nazi line. Thank you for the excellent work and the link cj hannum (@Seajay603) October 23, 2018@BenjaminHett book on Death Of Democracy really shows the parallels of Germany in late 1920/early 1930s and today #scary Beth Geller (@JustBeSmoothNJ) October 23, 2018We don’t have to repeat history. We can still make this right. Mike McDade (@zerixismike) October 23, 2018And yet your country looks set to allow the Republicans to maintain control of the senate and, still possibly, the house Dominic OwenWilliams (@Liguaneaman) October 23, 2018Scarborough went on to refer to his tweet on his program Tuesday morning with Morning Joe co-host MikaBrzezinski. On air, Scarborough read the full OSS profile.Brzezinski then began a segment highlighting some of the President’s more recent false statements. Scarborough also threw a question to correspondent Willie Geist who further detailed some of Trump’s comments on the GOP campaign trail.They finished the segment with a rebuttal of the President’s recurring statements about a caravan of immigrants that left Honduras headed for the United States made by Shep Smith on Fox News.Watch the segment here.Scarborough’s tweet was not the only thing that brought to mind similarities between the WWII dictator and the 45th United States President. 	Liberal
The midterm elections are only two weeks away and the race for Texas’s open Senate seat couldn’t be closer. Incumbent Republican Ted Cruz is fighting to hold on to his job, but a website bearing his name is benefitting his opponent, Democrat Beto O’Rourke.Cruz, a firebrand Canadian-born conservative and former federal prosecutor seeking a second term, somehow overlooked purchasing tedcruz.com, which is now a pro-O’Rourke site.The simply laid-out page one clear message: down with Cruz.“In 2016 Ted Cruz said: ‘We deserve leaders who stand for principle.'””VOTE AND SUPPORT BETO O’ROURKE!!!”The site is drawing a lot of excitement.The Twitterverse is urging voters to go to tedcruz.com to learn more about their favorite candidate.Go to https://t.co/fMR2KVY5mj right now. Just do it.— Dana Goldberg (@DGComedy) October 18, 2018Good for Cruz, finally getting his name out there. He clearly has tons of fans.Ted Cruz finally has his own website!  A must visit  https://t.co/VNhPj9R1CQ— Branded Xennial (@BrandonJZuniga) October 23, 2018even @tedcruz wants u 2 vote 4 BETO. Go 2 https://t.co/jGVxJJExBc & see it 4 urself.— Raz M Taz (@RazzzzMMMaTaazz) October 23, 2018Go to https://t.co/UNJSEi05qe.  I didn't do it!— Connie here-for-Outlander Sandlin (@Yr_Obt_Svt) October 18, 2018Visithttps://t.co/4GLuP5LVE9 Go Beto.— ~IMAGINE~ (@Port1L) October 22, 2018Hey go to https://t.co/blGUcjm6C5 real quick!— Dani (@DaniScotchIrish) October 21, 2018Ok, I've finally accepted the truth…yall win. https://t.co/PXxMfFbTPi https://t.co/wywvKg3uQB— tedrick holmes (@tedrick_holmes) October 23, 2018..  lol #TedCruz doesnt even support #TedCruz #BetoForTexas https://t.co/Kl2KkrIP45— pick me!!  (@ldstarr18) October 22, 2018Go to https://t.co/kLH3EjfYSj before they delete it.  pic.twitter.com/5vsBPU5DLV— Shireen S. (@shireen14) October 18, 2018STOP what you are doing and go to https://t.co/VRjXQXgcVx— Bryan Hardbarger  #AnnulTrump (@Nyrhalahotep) October 23, 2018A MUST SEE FOLKS – go to https://t.co/DNMEgkwkns and see what he has to say!— nyli (@nyli) October 22, 2018Whoever did this is wild https://t.co/nGB0PMVv66— Thomas Gomez (@t_gomez91) October 22, 2018You’d think someone as adept as Cruz would have bought the domain matching his name. Nope.That's what happens when you don't buy your own name as a domain. — John Laschober ( back to me) (@John_the_L) October 18, 2018Wouldn't a smart political figure do that?  — Gia El Aynaoui   (@ProblemChildFil) October 18, 2018Brilliant!— Little Mary Sparkles (@snorfel1) October 18, 2018I read a couple weeks ago that the URL and a couple more with his name on them were bought up by some #Resistance activists and that they were preparing to help @BetoORourke out in the closing weeks of the election. This is perfect!— Vote November 6th (@AngieinWAState) October 18, 2018Rookie mistake! Can't believe his campaign mgr didn't reserve the domain.— Call Your Reps Daily (@SherrynAdair) October 18, 2018His campaign manager probably doesn't like him either.— Mariblue (@maregolden) October 18, 2018Vote for Beto O'Rourke!– Ted Cruz— (((R.A. Roth Values Your Input, But Not Yours))) (@fantagor) October 18, 2018O’Rourke knew what to do.	Liberal
Construction equipment manufacturer Caterpillar blamed its disappointing stock market performance, which kept its adjusted earnings guidance for 2018 steady, falling short of the increase analysts had projected, on President Donald Trump’s tariffs. The company’s analysts say“higher material costs due to steel and tariffs” drove up manufacturing costs, which caused its stock to dive 8 percent despite an 18 percent increase in company revenue.If you were to ask the president, however, you’d hear a different story. Earlier today, the president responded to criticism of the tariffs his administration imposed on steel and aluminum imports, insisting that tariffs would continue so long as other countries don’t “give us a fair Trade Deal.”Billions of dollars are, and will be, coming into United States coffers because of Tariffs. Great also for negotiations – if a country wont give us a fair Trade Deal, we will institute Tariffs on them. Used or not, jobs and businesses will be created. U.S. respected again!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 23, 2018Caterpillar’s announcement comes after electric vehicle manufacturer Polaris Industries said its suppliers “musthelp offset the cost of President Donald Trumps trade wars if they want to keep doing business,” according toBloomberg.Polaris is making good progress with domestic suppliers saying, Hey, were not taking that price increase. Or more recently, telling our Chinese suppliers, Hey, if you want to continue to be a supplier to us, youre going to have to take some of these costs, saidChief Executive Officer Scott Wine, who noted that the president’s trade wars caused Polaris’s stock price to dip 31 percent.The president remains steadfast in his belief that tariffs are necessary to address the signs of what he believes to be an era of waning American influence on international markets.In March, shortly before confirming that the U.S. would impose tariffs on aluminum and steel, Trump attracted criticism for claiming that trade wars are good, and easy to win.When a country (USA) is losing many billions of dollars on trade with virtually every country it does business with, trade wars are good, and easy to win, he wrote at the time. Example, when we are down $100 billion with a certain country and they get cute, dont trade anymore-we win big. Its easy!When a country (USA) is losing many billions of dollars on trade with virtually every country it does business with, trade wars are good, and easy to win. Example, when we are down $100 billion with a certain country and they get cute, dont trade anymore-we win big. Its easy!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2018The president appeared to ignore much of the controversy surrounding his announcement. Instead, he doubled down on his belief that We must protect our country and our workers.We must protect our country and our workers. Our steel industry is in bad shape. IF YOU DONT HAVE STEEL, YOU DONT HAVE A COUNTRY!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2018Later, he seemed to offer justifications for his decision, writing: When a country Taxes our products coming in at, say, 50%, and we Tax the same product coming into our country at ZERO, not fair or smart. We will soon be starting RECIPROCAL TAXES so that we will charge the same thing as they charge us. $800 Billion Trade Deficit-have no choice!When a country Taxes our products coming in at, say, 50%, and we Tax the same product coming into our country at ZERO, not fair or smart. We will soon be starting RECIPROCAL TAXES so that we will charge the same thing as they charge us. $800 Billion Trade Deficit-have no choice!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2018According to two officials who at the time spoke to NBC News on condition of anonymity, Trumps decision to launch a potential trade war was born out of anger at other simmering issues and the result of a broken internal process that has failed to deliver him consensus views that represent the best advice of his team.In the words of one official,the president became unglued.Over the summer, twoRepublican members of Congress also called out the president after he took to Twitter with a bizarre claim about tariffs and how they operate.	Liberal
President Donald Trump tweeted a map of global air pollution, touting that the United States has the cleanest air in the world.The map, which cites the World Health Organization, claims that nowhere in the United States has air pollution above the WHO suggested level.America: the Cleanest Air in the World – BY FAR! pic.twitter.com/rMtxHSnof4— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 22, 2018In a remarkable display of consistency, Trump’s tweet was misleading. The map is doctored with text claiming that there are no high pollution levels in the United States. A World Health Organization map most closely resembling the one tweeted by the president is actually a measure of fine particulate matter. The map is deceptive because it’s only measuring the amount of fine particles in the air. These tiny particles in the air create the appearance of haziness, but they aren’t always harmful to the environment. For instance, the reason parts of Africa appear to have unclean air on the map is because these are desert areas with large amounts of sand–a fine particle. The map addresses particles like these but not man-made air pollutants likenitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide–which are released with the burning of coal.Former Environmental Protection Agency official John Walke pointed out why Trump’s map was incorrect.The total number of Americans living with PM2.5 pollution above the @WHO level far exceeds 10 million, once you add other towns & cities in AL, GA, IN, IA, IL, KY, MO, OH, PA, WV; all are states in the WHO database with PM2.5 levels exceeding @WHO suggested levels. 11/— John Walke (@jwalkenrdc) October 22, 2018And tweeting the map on the bottom would have shown how much more work the United States needs to do to protect all Americans from deadly air pollution, to deliver on the Clean Air Acts promise of safe air for all Americans. 20/ pic.twitter.com/4Dj1O7WJv5— John Walke (@jwalkenrdc) October 22, 2018The U.S. does have better air quality than many parts of the world. But far too many Americans suffer from unsafe air quality; the # of Americans living in areas w/ unsafe ground-level ozone (smog) pollution, e.g., is far higher than the PM2.5 areas discussed in this thread. 21/— John Walke (@jwalkenrdc) October 22, 2018Walke pointed out that many of the nation’s most populous cities still have pollution levels above the WHO suggested levels, and he wasn’t the only one.Another outright lie.  Even the supplied map shows that countries like Canada, Finland, Iceland, Sweden, France, Spain, Australia and New Zealand have similar, if not better, air quality.  The truth is that the U.S. isn't even in the Top 10 of cleanest air… but France is. pic.twitter.com/pv2wkUqwYR— Smokey Stafford  (@SmokeyStafford) October 22, 2018This map is very misleading…First off it's clearly county Saharan dust as pollution because there arnt very many human made pollutants in the Sahara, so in comparison, it would make our air seem clean, because the Sahara is literally a dusty desert.— Elan Azriel (@elanazriel) October 23, 2018look! its this easy pic.twitter.com/jZrTr98eVF— Nour Samantha (@noursamantha) October 23, 2018 Not to mention, the map tweeted by President Donald Trump is from 2016, when Former President Barack Obama was still in office. 	Liberal
Fox News host Steve Doocy on Monday asked a panel of independent voters how they felt about the caravan of thousands of refugees migrating through Central America toward the United States. Their response was not what Doocy expected.Doocy asked the panel: “How big a problem is that the United States has uneven immigration laws?”The first answer was a bit more empathetic than what Doocy had in mind.“I think uneven immigration laws are a problem for any country,” Michael Willner, an independent voter, told Doocy when asked about America’s immigration laws. “And I think our immigration laws need to be modernized and updated. But this country is founded on immigration. And all of us come from immigrants.”Doocy followed up by asking what the United States should do if the traveling crowd’s numbers increase to 20,000.“This is the mightiest country on the planet, I think we can handle a caravan of people, unarmed, coming to this country,” saidMichael Willner, adding that the United States should “process them properly.”A Fox & Friends voter panel rebels when asked about the migrant caravan – The Washington Post.  Good responses. Guess they didnt screen independent voters good enough. https://t.co/WORqPbWEsG— Remy LeBeau (@RemyLeManU) October 23, 2018Doocy turned toCathy Stewart of the New York Independence Party to get her takeon the subject.“I think that the immigration crisis that we’re seeing is a result of the failure of the two democraticparties to actually engage the issue,” Stewart said. “Instead, they use it as a partisan football.”She went on to say that “no political party owns independent voters.”Sure, said Doocy. And, moving on: John, real quick.A third panelist named John Opdyke referred to the political situation in Central America as a “humanitarian crisis” that has been minimized to “talking points.”“Theres a humanitarian crisis taking place in Central America. And yet, this issue gets turned into a complete political football,”Opdyke told Doocy. “Theres very little honest discussion about whats actually happening, it gets turned into talking points.”Finally, Doocy turned toAaron Commey, an independent voter. And Aaron?”“Treating this as an invasion is a bad idea and it’s going to end horribly if it is treated that way,” Commey cautioned. “So I think people have to realize these are human beings coming here and there needs to be a real solution offered in dealing with it.”People loved it.This is so fantastic. When the Fox & Friends gang do everything they can to get a group of independent voters frightened about the dreaded migrant caravan and they don't take the bait.https://t.co/xHDHrAt5Ce— Rex Huppke (@RexHuppke) October 22, 2018Fox & Friends put together a panel of independent voters to talk about immigration. Fox has been fear-mongering about the caravan of migrants headed north for days. But their plan hilariously backfired when the panel came out in support of helping… https://t.co/ecLCvRjnrj— Stephanie  (@HotLiberalBitch) October 22, 2018Dept of Next Time, Fake Independent Voters…Steve Doocy shut down by panel not buying #caravan fearmongering https://t.co/7ee7vPkzF1#media #news— Balkingpoints.com (@Balkingpoints) October 23, 2018LOL good on those independent voters.Review | A Fox & Friends voter panel rebels when asked about the migrant caravan https://t.co/IGt4GXyJ0G— US Grant Fan (@browntailedhawk) October 23, 2018Doocy’s closing remarks after not hearing what he wanted to hear had a Trumpian familiarity.Sure, but the backdrop is the midterms, so it all becomes political,” Doocy said. “So lets see what happens!Click this link to watch the full segment. The topic of immigration begins at around 4:10.Doocy’s attempt at fearmongering was pretty obvious to anyone watching.	Liberal
Lifelong Republican Caitlyn Jenner spoke out against President Donald Trump publicly and clearly for one of the first times since he took office in January 2017.In an interview with People magazine, Jenner addressed the President directly in response to his administration’s plans to establish gender as binary and determined at birth.Jenner stated:“The Trump administration has ferociously attacked my community again. Just as an FYI Mr. Presidentthe military is the single largest employer of trans people in the world.”“This leaked memo is an unacceptable attack on my community.We will not be erased!”The memo referenced came from the Department of Health and Human Services, under Trump’s appointee Alex Azar. The Trump administration, through DHHS and Azar, hopes to define gender as a biological, binary, immutable condition determined by genitalia at birth.In addition to erasure of the transgender community and ignorance of science and the multiple factors that biologically determine gender beyond genitalia, it also ignores the traditional cultures of the United States.Many tribal cultures indigenous to the United States recognized more than a binary gender construct. They recognized from three to seven genders.To mandate all people in the United States must recognize only two genders is also an erasure of Native American heritage and traditional culture.DHHS and the Trump administration seek to attach their narrow gender definition under Title IX. Title IXbanned discrimination based on a persons sex in federally funded education programs.But since taking office, the Trump administration have attempted to use the law to limit the rights of sexual assault victims on college campuses and strip the LGBT community of their basic human rights with attachments made by memo through Betsy DeVos at the Department of Education, DHHS and Ben Carson at Housing and Urban Development.The leaked DHHS memo states:“Sex means a persons status as male or female based on immutable biological traits identifiable by or before birth. The sex listed on a persons birth certificate, as originally issued, shall constitute definitive proof of a persons sex unless rebutted by reliable genetic evidence.”Their definition shows a distinct lack of scientific knowledge or understanding of the multiple factors that contribute to human gender beyond physical appearance of genitalia on a newborn. But ignorance of science is a frequent criticism of the Trump administration and the Republican Party.Jenner herself proved reluctant to criticize her own political party after she came out which led to considerable backlash toward Jenner from the transgender community and their allies.But Caitlyn Jenner was born in 1949 in a traditionally conservative family in upstate New York. Her coming out as transgender in April 2015 and transitioning negates none of that lifetime of conservative views.She also lived in California for decades, after winning the Olympic gold in the decathlon in 1976. Jenner is used to the Ronald Reagan and Arnold Schwarzenegger breed of Republican, not the Tea Party Republicans and those entrenched in the religious right of Evangelical Christianity.Jenner originally supported Trump, angering many in the LGBTQ community and their allies. But she changed her mind after Trump attempted to eliminate transgender people in the military.In August, she stated:“I honestly dont know what happened when he got in there. It was extraordinarily disappointing.”But people disagree with Jenner’s assessment of a Trump change.	Liberal
Speaking at a Houston campaign rally, President Donald Trump claimed that “nobody has helped” his administration more than Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX), in a bid to galvanize supporters ahead of the midterm elections.We had our little difficulties. But, actually, if you remember in the beginning, it was a love fest, said Trump.Then it got nasty. And then it ended, and Ill tell you what: Nobody has helped me more.At Houston campaign rally, Pres. Trump tells supporters that "nobody has helped" his administration more than Sen. Ted Cruz. https://t.co/NR4kOVaY3R pic.twitter.com/Th4LkzNbCH— ABC News (@ABC) October 23, 2018That’s a far cry from all the times the president openly mocked Cruz, who refused to endorse him at the Republican National Convention in 2016.The Daily Show had the scoop, posting a video of some of Trump’s past comments in quick cuts.SCOOP: Rare video unearthed from 200 years ago. pic.twitter.com/XdI9iVi4Di— The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) October 22, 2018Trump regularly disparaged Cruz on the campaign trailto say nothing of his time in office. Some of the comments highlighted in the video:Not included: The president’s choice to mock Heidi Cruz, the senator’s wife, on more than one occasion, including in the tweet below."@Don_Vito_08: "A picture is worth a thousand words" @realDonaldTrump #LyingTed #NeverCruz @MELANIATRUMP pic.twitter.com/5bvVEwMVF8"— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 24, 2016He also once suggested that Cruz’s father may have been involved in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. (“His father was with Lee Harvey Oswald prior to Oswald being, you know, shot,” Trump said during a telephone interview in 2016. “I mean the whole thing is ridiculous. What is this? Right? Prior to his being shot.And nobody even brings it up. I mean, they don’t even talk about that that was reported. And nobody talks about it.”)Needless to say, the president’s current praise for Cruz isn’t fooling anyone.Donald Trump called Ted Cruzs wife ugly and then turned around and called Ted Cruz beautiful. What a strong role model we have for little children everywhere.— Chelsea Handler (@chelseahandler) October 22, 2018To get a sense of what a desperate opportunist Ted Cruz is, let's not forget that Trump insulted Cruz's wife, suggested his father was somehow in on the Kennedy assassination, relentlessly mocked Cruz as a liar, and never apologized for any of it. https://t.co/GtAebLCPO4— Ben Rhodes (@brhodes) October 22, 2018How much shit did @tedcruz have to eat to get Trump to stump for him.  From the looks of this picture almost enough to feel some bit of shame.  #soulless pic.twitter.com/cnhLPb63oc— Rick Smith (@RickSmithShow) October 23, 2018In Texas, Ted Cruz has graciously greeted President Trump, who, hours earlier, when asked if he regretted implying Cruz' dad killed JFK, said, "I don't regret anything, honestly. It all worked out, very nicely."— Kathryn Watson (@kathrynw5) October 22, 2018In the '16 Presidential race, Ted Cruz called Donald Trump a "pathological liar, utterly amoral & a serial philanderer," & Trump countered, "How can Cruz be an Evangelical Christian when he lies so much & is so dishonest?" Who're we to believe? Believe both. They speak the truth.— carl reiner (@carlreiner) October 22, 2018Cruz, during last night’s rally, said Trump is a man who has presided over record jobs, record unemployment,” adding:In 2020, Donald Trump will be overwhelmingly reelected as president of the United States.”	Liberal
The New Hampshire Superior Court on Monday issued an injunction against a 2017 law that made same-day voter registration more difficult.The court tossed SB 3, which placed stringent proof of residency requirements on voters hoping to register on the same day they cast a ballot. The court ruled that SB 3 placed unconstitutional burdens on the right to vote, especially on college kids and the poor, who typically swing Democratic.Hillsborough County Superior Court Judge Kenneth Brown said in his ruling:Given the extraordinarily low rate of documented voter fraud in this state, it is far more likely that more legitimate voters will be dissuaded from voting than illegitimate voters will be prevented.”Under the law, voters had to obtain physical proof of residence, instead of verbally affirming their information under penalty of perjury, as was the process before the law was enacted last year.Brown also railed against the confusing nature of the forms required by the law and the length of time it would take to fill them out, thus creating severe delays on election day.Democratic gubernatorial candidate Molly Kelly took to Twitter to announce the court’s decision.“I’m pleased that the New Hampshire Superior Court has issued an injunction against SB 3, which made voting more confusing for many eligible voters. We need a governor who will protect our right to vote, not put barriers in place to this fundamental right. As governor, I’ll repeal SB 3 and HB 1264 and expand access to voting. Votersare ready to replace Chris Sununu in November.”Im pleased that the New Hampshire Superior Court has issued an injunction against SB 3, which made voting more confusing for many eligible voters. As governor, Ill repeal SB 3 and HB 1264 and expand access to voting. My full statement here: pic.twitter.com/hBvM6ZWrCU— Molly Kelly (@NHMollyKelly) October 22, 2018The American Civil Liberties Union also lauded the injunction, which the organization dubbed a “big deal.”This is a big deal.  In a victory for NH voting rights, court halts SB3, one of NH's recent voter suppression laws. ACLU-NH statement here: https://t.co/WXYyKcRR99— ACLU_New Hampshire (@ACLU_NH) October 22, 2018In a statement, the ACLU broke down the ruling:“The Superior Court found that the new forms imposed by SB 3 were confusing and lengthy and could potentially contribute to significantly longer lines at some polling places. The Court also found that some populations, such as the homeless, would be disproportionately burdened by the law. Finally, the Court found that the law was not supported by the States claimed interests of combatting voter fraud or increasing voter confidence.”The New Hampshire Democratic Party also commented on the court’s ruling.Statement of New Hampshire Democratic Party @ChairmanBuckley on the Hillsborough Superior Court Injunction of SB 3: https://t.co/bKjQGKAuqX#NHPolitics— NH Democratic Party (@NHDems) October 22, 2018This injunction is a win for all eligible voters and sends a clear message that voter suppression tactics will not be tolerated in New Hampshire,” said state party chair Ray Buckley. “Every qualified voter should be permitted to vote without unnecessary burdens imposed upon them. Now, lets work together to make our voices are heard on November 6th and to ensure no such bill is a viable option in New Hampshire ever again.”.@NHDems attorney Bill Christie tells @WMUR9 –   We are very pleased with the Courts order enjoining SB 3 in its entirety.  The order sends a strong message that voter suppression tactics will not be tolerated in New Hampshire. #nhpolitics #WMUR https://t.co/CC3Zayk5rf— John DiStaso (@jdistaso) October 22, 2018Liberal activists working to elect Democrats and protect the right to vote are ecstatic.BREAKING: In a major victory for student voting rights, New Hampshire court strikes down restrictive voter registration law aimed at college students: Congrats to @prioritiesUSA and the @PerkinsCoieLLP team.— Marc E. Elias (@marceelias) October 22, 2018Good job all the way around! — PeppermintPatty (@Peppermint_18) October 22, 2018Yes!!— LaBlue (@LaBlue3D) October 22, 2018Statement of New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair Ray Buckley on the Hillsborough Superior Court Injunction of SB 3: https://t.co/BMs9TJhE0tA win for Democrats! — Blindguy Resists! (@SmithBlindlib5) October 22, 2018People are well aware of what’s at stake.	Liberal
As approximately 7200 migrants continue to caravan to the United States border, Donald Trump continues to sow fear against them.The president has used the numbers and races of those seeking to enter the country to paint the picture of an American invasion when, in reality, these caravans have happened before and due to the thousands of miles required of the journey, the numbers are usually down to only hundreds by the time the groups actually arrive at the border.Nonetheless, the president continued to vilify the asylum seekers making the arduous trek to the United States.Trump claims, without evidence, that if journalists "took cameras" into the migrant caravan, "You're going to find MS-13, you're going to find Middle Eastern, you're going to find everything. And guess what, we're not allowing the them in our country." pic.twitter.com/Z8TLsqotnn— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) October 22, 2018“Take your cameras and search okay? Take your cameras and you’re going to find MS-13, you’re going to find Middle Eastern. You’re going to find everything. And guess what? We’re not allowing them in our country.”The president has frequently stoked the irrational fears of his base by invoking the Middle East and the gang MS-13.Sadly, it looks like Mexicos Police and Military are unable to stop the Caravan heading to the Southern Border of the United States. Criminals and unknown Middle Easterners are mixed in. I have alerted Border Patrol and Military that this is a National Emergy. Must change laws!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 22, 2018Today as he doubled down on the comments, people are making sure to call the president out for the many holes in his logic.What does you're going to find Middle Eastern even mean?  Is he trying to say all Middle Eastern people are bad people or is he just an idiot?— Dowhatisright (@stand4all) October 22, 2018The man is just flat out lying and it is sickening. This conspiracy theory he is peddling is #25thAmendment worthy!—  Hot Hands doesn't like tear gassing babies!  (@StephenHotHands) October 22, 2018Guess what. All immigrants seeking asylum are allowed to enter. trump Gestapo blocking of asylum corridors is illegal. trump's mass incarceration of innocent immigrants and children is illegal. #CrimesAgainstHumanity. Send trump, @nikkihaley and @SecNielsen to The Hague.— Mia Resists (@MuseOverMia) October 22, 2018Just another outrageous lie.— Nasty Women-taking back our country. (@58isthenew40) October 22, 2018Like this violent gang of thugs. Oh wait this is NY and these are Trump's Proud lil Boys pic.twitter.com/pSePf13uYY— Night Mists  (@Nitemists) October 22, 2018Others asked exactly what he meant.	Liberal
In a Citizen by CNN event interview being criticized as full of softball questions, White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner answered questions about whether he was “having fun” and his father-in-law, President Donald Trump, as a grandfather. But between the fluff, host Van Jones did ask one question people wanted answered.Jones asked:“How did you get this job? You have like the dopest job in the world, the secretary of everything…how did you wind up in this position?”Van Jones interview Kushner at “Citizen by CNN” event starting now. Jones asks, “How did you get this job? You have like the dopest job in the world, the secretary of everything…how did you wind up in this position?” Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) October 22, 2018He further pointed out that Kushner had a very small resume, but a massive amount of access and responsibilities under President Trump. Jones asked why the people of the United States should have confidence in his abilities.As opposed to listing qualifications in management or government, Kushner did little to dispel the criticism that his position in the Trump administration boils down to nepotism. His wife, Ivanka Trump, faces the same critique over her role in the White House.Kushner responded:“I think the first thing is the president trusts me.”“I think he knows that every task he’s given me, from the start of the campaign through, Ive been able to do it quietly, I’ve been able to do it effectively, I’ve been able to deliver results.”“I dont make a lot of noise. I know noise is sometimes made about me but I try to keep my head down.”CNN’s Van Jones: “Why should we have confidence in you to do all this stuff?”Jared Kushner: “The President trusts me. I think he knows that every task he’s given me … I’ve been able to do it effectively, I’ve been able to deliver results” #CITIZENCNN pic.twitter.com/Bboxmrkr1b CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) October 22, 2018Kushner: “I did not plan my life to go into politics…my father in law announced he was running for president…I took on a lot of responsibilities.” Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) October 22, 2018The Senior Adviser to the President went on to repeatedly refer to Trump as his “father-in-law”, not helping his case that his position in the administration did not result from nepotism.Kushner on working with his wife, Ivanka Trump: Working together has given me an even greater appreciation for just how effective she is with everything she does … Everyone wants to work with her #CITIZENCNN https://t.co/BNhvJfv4sp pic.twitter.com/Ym8rqQrDdN CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) October 22, 2018Kushner’s response does align with Trump’s value of loyalty and trust over expertise or ability when assembling his administration. However several of those selections already bit Trump in the behind.For example, Trump brought in reality TV star Omarosa Manigault for a White House position. But after clashes with other members of the staff, Chief of Staff John Kelly forced Manigault out.She immediately signed a book deal for a tell-all that failed to flatter anyone in the Trump campaign or the White House.Other loyal Trump supporters like Scott Pruitt and Rob Porter resigned under a cloud of scandal and controversy. Trump’s propensity to pick loyal people over qualified people continues to draw criticism.	Liberal
Carl Bernstein, the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who, along with Bob Woodward, established his storied career on the landmark reporting he did on the Watergate scandal, says that President Donald Trump will likely “throw legal challenges into the courts” to undermine the legitimacy of the upcoming midterm elections. Bernstein refers to this political strategy as “untruth.”Speaking to Brian Stetler during an interview on CNN’sReliable Sources, Bernstein said:“I talked to people…in touch with the White House on Friday who believe that if the congressional midterms are very close and the Democrats were to win by five or seven seats, that Trump was already talking about how to throw legal challenges into the courts, sow confusion, declare a victory, actually, and say that the election’s been illegitimate. That is really under discussion in the White House.”"We have had presidents in the past who have lied … but what we have never had is a President of the United States who uses lying and untruth as a basic method to promote his policies," says @CarlBernstein pic.twitter.com/dL09dVsYMF— Reliable Sources (@ReliableSources) October 21, 2018“We have had presidents in the past who have liedthere is no question about thatbut what we have never had is a president of the United States who uses lying and untruth as a basic method to promote his policies, his beliefs and his way of approaching the American people and engaging with the world,” Bernstein continued. “His default position is to use untruth to go toward his objectives.”Bernstein pointed to Trump’s recent comments about widespread voter fraud as an example of his “untruth” strategy.All levels of government and Law Enforcement are watching carefully for VOTER FRAUD, including during EARLY VOTING. Cheat at your own peril. Violators will be subject to maximum penalties, both civil and criminal!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 21, 2018The press needs “to be doing stories about the reality of whether or not there is widespread voter fraud” to counter the president’s lies, he suggested.>> @CarlBernstein: "When Trump talks, for instance, about voter fraud, as he did in a tweet last night, and warned people against fraudulent voting, we need to be doing stories about the reality of whether or not there is widespread voter fraud." pic.twitter.com/JAWvMSU2Lr— Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) October 21, 2018Bernstein’s comments come on the heels of a FiveThirtyEight analysis which projects Democrats have an 86 percent chance of winning the House; another analysis calculated Democrats have a 22 percent chance of gaining control of the Senate.Naturally, political leaders,members of the media, and members of the public alike have expressed similar concerns, and Bernstein’s remarks have only affirmed what people already believe: That it would not be outside the president’s wheelhouse to challenge an election.President Trump is "Mr. Misinformation." https://t.co/wS2ih08uFT— Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) October 22, 2018We have to fight with everything we got. If we don't put a check on tyrant Trump in the midterms, this will be our last remotely fair election. https://t.co/tWDQq8DJu6— Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) October 22, 2018Trump's talking about how to throw legal challenges to the courts, sow confusion, declare a victory, say that the election's been illegitimate," Bernstein said his sources warned#Mueller, hoping you drop a bomb immediately after midterms completehttps://t.co/UEm1GEdPs2— Gamora Gratitude & grace (@exoticgamora) October 21, 2018Brother Carl is right about this.  We have to show up in record numbers and take both the House and Senate!  Trump and Putin will say and do anything to hold power. https://t.co/1GdWyl0zJi— Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) October 21, 2018This is the election of our lifetime!We get to stop a Putin installed despot and his Republican cronies from turning America into an Authoritarian state. No one wants Russian type rule suppressing our freedoms and using vicious tactics to silence usVOTE https://t.co/Q2fb7rsRX8— Olga Lautman (@olgaNYC1211) October 22, 2018Bernstein’s concerns are not out of the ordinary: Trumphas often claimed that millions voted illegally in the 2016 presidential election, ironically casting doubt on the election he supposedly won. He even established a voter fraud commission to investigate just that.But in August, in aletteraddressed to Vice President Mike Pence, who chairedthe now-defunct committee, and Kris Kobach (the commissions vice chair), former commission member and current Secretary of State of Maine, Matthew Dunlap, stated that the presidents now dismantled voter fraud commission uncovered no evidence to prove Trumps dubious claim.JUST IN: Matt Dunlap, member of Trumps former voter fraud commission, publishes trove of records, finds zero evidence of mass voter fraud, says claims from White House were, in fact, false."His letter to WH: https://t.co/nok74aEZFRThe documents: https://t.co/sasj7s7ycT pic.twitter.com/J2epPfBVMB— Dominic Holden (@dominicholden) August 3, 2018	Liberal
Republican Senator from Georgia David Perdue may not be up for reelection this year, but that hasn’t relieved him of pressure from his constituents. His way of dealing with that pressure is telling.Earlier this month, Perdue snatched a Georgia Tech student’s phone after the student attempted to ask Perdue why he’s supporting Georgia’s Secretary of State Brian Kemp, who’s facing a lawsuit for purging thousands of voter rolls in majority-black communities who likely would vote for his opponent, Stacey Abrams.Now, it looks like Perdue will face a lawsuit of his own.Can someone get @sendavidperdue a safe space? "Student tried asking a simple question about @BrianKempGA's racist scheme to threaten voter registrations from black people, but before he could even finish the question, Perdue stole his phone."  @YDSAGT pic.twitter.com/TDekMjyyjh— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) October 15, 2018The law firm Dreyer Sterling LLC, founded by Democratic State Representative David Dreyer and Atlanta candidate for Mayor Michael Sterling, filed a civil battery complaint against Perdue on the student’s behalf.In announcing the complaint, attorneys said Perdue“ripped [a] phone out of a student’s hands as the student attempted to ask a question about voter rights.”Now, Americans on Twitter are loving the move toward justice, with many calling Perdue a bully.Good! @sendavidperdue is not above the law, even if he conducts himself as such. #bully— mary (@socueme) October 22, 2018Good for him. @sendavidperdue is a bully who NEVER meets with his constituents! Always calling others aggressive & his party is the offender! Can't wait to vote him out in 2020!— BestIsYetToCome (@HMR812) October 22, 2018Bullies need to be held accountable, no matter who they are. @sendavidperdue— Mary  (@maryella480) October 22, 2018Love it!!— TurnNCBlue (@nc_turn) October 22, 2018The defense Perdue’s team is offering doesn’t seem reliable either.	Liberal
Donald Trump Jr. inserted himself into New Jersey’s Senate race on Monday, tweeting that a vote against incumbent Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ) “seems like a no-brainer.”“NJ has a clear choice,” the president’s eldest son said on Twitter. “Stick with Menendez who will always be dogged by serious ethics questions, or back GOP challenger, Bob Hugin, a Marine Corps veteran and the former chief of a large and very successful business. Seems like a no-brainer.”NJ has a clear choice. Stick with Menendez who will always be dogged by serious ethics questions, or back GOP challenger, Bob Hugin, a Marine Corps veteran and the former chief of a large and very successful business. Seems like a no brainer. #nj #njpol https://t.co/v0GdrGAeZ5— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) October 22, 2018While it’s true that Menendez has been plagued by ethics complaints, Twitter didn’t waste a second calling out Junior on the obvious: if he’s so worried about corruption, he should look at his father and the never-ending swamp circus that is his presidency.A Trump referencing ethics! pic.twitter.com/OQCUqvXrXX— KG Jr (@KGrubbs) October 22, 2018Ethics?A Trump commenting on ethics!  Oh my thats too much!— Bipolar Bestseller  (@RStephenson5) October 22, 2018Ethics?  No Trump has any right to posture about ethics or morality.— Saucy Minx  (@SaucyMinx8) October 22, 2018I wouldnt use the phrase no brainer if I were you pic.twitter.com/EoT13jhWXB— Providential (@Providential818) October 22, 2018Stupid. You're just like your father. Gaslighting. Spreading  fear and hatred. And btw, don't you have a fraud, sorry, "business" to run?— Caroline    #FBR #RESIST (@SweResistance) October 22, 2018https://twitter.com/StanleyGoodsp17/status/1054391048393252864We do have a clear choice.  We'll choose anyone but a Trumpster.— Michael Paul (@SuperpoweredCat) October 22, 2018I cant believe u said ethics when ur family had 10 000 children in detention center its just unethical comment in itself— alex brucker (@brucker206) October 22, 2018You have to stop using words you dont understand, like ethics or successful or business.— In a crowd all by yourself (@emperesspenguin) October 22, 2018Oh please do opine about ethics questions. It occurs to me how profoundly un-selfactualized you are.— Mike Maples (@JubelGantry) October 22, 2018My goodness thought for a second he was talking about his father in the beginning!!!— PFB (@BananaHeadLady) October 22, 2018It does seem like it should be a no-brainer. Too bad the GOP is so morally and ethically bankrupt that Menendez is the lesser evil.— Jenny Gattone (@TheWriteJennyG) October 22, 2018the former chief of a large and very successful business. Seems like a no brainer.The no brainer is to stay as far away as possible if trump endorsed him.  Thank you.— LilyAnna Somes (@LilyannaSomes) October 22, 2018You seem like a no brainer.  Hmmmm…  Easy decision, pick the opposite of whoever or whatever a Trump recommends. pic.twitter.com/pf4TnNK7By— Samuel E. bucher (@SamuelEbucher2) October 22, 2018Youre mentioning or criticizing another persons ethics?!?!  Just when I thought Trump and his family couldnt sink any lower…  #LiarInChief #trumptraitor— Jason Jochum (@JasonJLaw) October 22, 2018From the fucking asshole who cheated on his wife, with 5 kids, has a new broad who looks like his step-mommy so I guess he really wants to screw @FLOTUS and more than likely be in prison in 2020 rather than stump for #Daddy.— DT (@Donnat_01) October 22, 2018Yeesh.Others pointed out that Junior’s endorsement of Hugin, a former Marine and pharmaceutical executive at Celgene, represents a tone-deafness to the rising costs of prescription drugs and healthcare that are burdening ordinary Americans.go ahead and push your Big Pharma guy Hugin at a time when healthcare is a major issue for most voters, and for as awful as Menendez is, when you watch him win anyway, you'll see just how toxic your daddy and his agenda are to the electorate.— Ryan Due  (@ryandue) October 22, 2018Except Hugin ran a drug pricing gouging drug company.— James Love (@jamie_love) October 22, 2018Hugin, meanwhile, is releasing airing attack ads accusing Menendez of hiring underage prostitutesduring a trip he took to the Dominican Republic.	Liberal
The mystery surrounding the disappearance and assassination of Jamal Khashoggi deepened on Monday after a Turkish officialtold CNN that one of the men involved with Khashoggi’s murder posed as a body-double after the journalist was killed.This is Mustafa al-Madani at 11:03am entering the Saudi consulate in Instanbul. He was there to be a decoy to leave the building after the Saudi hit squad murdered @washingtonposts Jamal Khashoggi. He is almost the exact same height, weight, and age. His shoes are key here. pic.twitter.com/T244USCazn— Shaun King (@shaunking) October 22, 2018Security camera footage obtained by CNN shows an individual wearing Khashoggi’s clothes, a fake beard, and glasses leaving the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul shortly after Khashoggi vanished inside on October 2.The man dressed as Khashoggi,Mustafa al-Madani, is believed to have been part of the 15-man hit squad that carried out the torture and brutal killing of the Washington Post columnist.“In the apparent cover-up that followed Khashoggi’s death,” CNN wrote on Monday, “Madani, 57, who is of similar height, age and build to Khashoggi, 59, was used as a decoy for the journalist, according to the Turkish official.”This is Mustafa al-Madani at 11:03am entering the Saudi consulate in Instanbul. He was there to be a decoy to leave the building after the Saudi hit squad murdered @washingtonposts Jamal Khashoggi. He is almost the exact same height, weight, and age. His shoes are key here. pic.twitter.com/T244USCazn— Shaun King (@shaunking) October 22, 2018After Saudi Arabia murdered Jamal Khashoggi in their consulate, they took his clothes off, and put them on a body double, who just so happened to have a fake beard on hand, and be older than anyone else there.He then left to make it look like Jamal lefthttps://t.co/hWExX4O5Yt— Shaun King (@shaunking) October 22, 2018“Madani, a decade older than the other members of the 15-man team, exited the consulate building by the back door along with an alleged accomplice,” CNN reported. “Madani was wearing what the video appears to show to be Khashoggi’s dark blazer, gray shirt opened at the collar and trousers.”One Turkish official told CNN that al-Madani was specifically brought in to act as a body-double once Khashoggi was dead. He entered the Saudi Consulate around 11:00 A.M.“You don’t need a body double for a rendition or an interrogation,” the official said. “Our assessment has not changed since October 6. This was a premeditated murder and the body was moved out of the consulate.”“Khashoggi’s clothes were probably still warm when Madani put them on,” the official added.This is Mustafa al-Madani at 11:03am entering the Saudi consulate in Instanbul. He was there to be a decoy to leave the building after the Saudi hit squad murdered @washingtonposts Jamal Khashoggi. He is almost the exact same height, weight, and age. His shoes are key here. pic.twitter.com/T244USCazn— Shaun King (@shaunking) October 22, 2018Khashoggi arrived a couple hours later. Shaun King notes the difference in shoe size between Khashoggi and the man pretending to be him.Here is Jamal Khashoggi entering the Saudi consulate at 1:14pm. A hit squad with a decoy to impersonate him is waiting inside. Jamals shoes are key here. The Saudis didnt account for the decoy and Jamal not wearing the same shoe size. pic.twitter.com/kbecgKLMaS— Shaun King (@shaunking) October 22, 2018Here is al-Madani leaving the consulate dressed as Khashoggi, minus the shoes.At 2:52pm Mustafa al-Madani leaves the Saudi consulate, no longer wearing the clothes he entered the consulate with, but instead wearing Jamal Khashoggis clothes, & a fake beard that was clearly brought in advance. Except hes wearing his original tennis shoes w/ white soles. pic.twitter.com/DaNcGxAtj4— Shaun King (@shaunking) October 22, 2018Below is al-Madani spotted leaving the Blue Mosque in his own clothes after he had prayed while impersonating Khashoggi.At 4:29pm, after leaving a revered mosque to pray in Jamal Khashoggis clothes, making it look like Jamal left the Saudi consulate, Mustafa al-Madani changes back into his original clothes and takes off the fake beard.His accomplice is carrying Jamals clothes in a clear bag. pic.twitter.com/f0pwIEJHzB— Shaun King (@shaunking) October 22, 2018Criticism of Saudi Arabia, Khashoggi’s native country believed to be responsible for Khashoggi’s death, is permeating social media.Forgot to adjust the hairthey forgot the little details. @realDonaldTrump is an accessory to murder after the fact. I hooe the world finally starts holding us responsible for our domestic human rights atrocities and our sanctioning of terrorist and human rights violations abroad— Btysheen resists racism and hatred, Trumpism (@Btysheen) October 22, 2018Yeah… totally accidental, they also had a fake beard and a guy who looked like Jamal Khashoggi by complete chance! — Lissa (@Lissawashburn) October 22, 2018But this was simply a spontaneous fist fight that, per usual, ended in dismemberment.— John O'Keefe (@jokeefe) October 22, 2018Oh dear god. This gets more bizarre and heartbreaking by the day. I'm feeling for his family right now.— J Dub (@NifDub) October 22, 2018What a coincidence that his body double was there ahead of and waiting for him! Wow. Will wonders never cease!— toni_nh (@toni_nh) October 22, 2018No premeditation there, America wake up!— Vote November 6th! (@MingsMusic) October 22, 2018They legit pulled a Bond movie level kill. Its so sad, but Im glad its being exposed at least.— ms G (@mgorena) October 22, 2018Who among us doesn't travel for a one-day vacation carrying our bone saw and fake beard?— Kristina K. Gehrki (@AkathisiaRx) October 22, 2018Theyre trying so so hard and yet failing miserably in trying to cover this up. The first thing I noticed was the hairline difference.— Mychie Jean (@MychieJ) October 22, 2018He was dismembered. The clothes had to have come off first to be able to wear them out. Premeditated, much?— Carrie (@m4rie4) October 22, 2018Al-Madani also clearly has more hair on his head than Khashoggi.— Ryan Lilly (@PurgeGod666) October 22, 2018Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia has struggled to come up with a viable explanation for Khashoggi’s death other than a planned assassination.	Liberal
On Monday, President Donald Trump took to Twitter with a dire warning certain to frighten many of his followers. He warned of an unknown number of “Criminals and unknown Middle Easterners” headed en masse toward the United States in a caravan of thousands fleeing violence.In his tweet, the President stated:“Sadly, it looks like Mexicos Police and Military are unable to stop the Caravan heading to the Southern Border of the United States. Criminals and unknown Middle Easterners are mixed in. I have alerted Border Patrol and Military that this is a National Emergy. Must change laws!”Sadly, it looks like Mexicos Police and Military are unable to stop the Caravan heading to the Southern Border of the United States. Criminals and unknown Middle Easterners are mixed in. I have alerted Border Patrol and Military that this is a National Emergy. Must change laws! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 22, 2018The President is surrounded by a cadre of advisers with decades of experience in national security and international intelligence gathering. So which of his experienced advisers provided this information to Trump?Fox & Friends, of course.Specifically, Fox & Friends guest and weekend Fox News anchor Pete Hegseth, who floated the idea that Isis has infiltrated the caravan.Hegseth began, “The laws are, as the president calls them, dumb. They don’t make sense. They don’t protect our sovereignty. That’s where you have to go back to Congress and say, it’s about time we actually do something about it.”“A wall is part of saying, you don’t get to come into our country unless you prove that you are a refugee. So, go to a port of entry, claim asylum, you’ll get your day in court, we’ll determine whether it’s valid or not.”Then dropped this doozy:“But, you got the president of Guatemala saying to a local newspaper down there just last week, they caught over a hundred ISIS fighters in Guatemala trying to use this caravan or other processes…”Co-host Steve Doocy interrupted Hegseth then to ask:“Are we sure that’s true?”Hegseth responded:“He talked to their local newspaper, we don’t know it, it hasn’t been verified. But even one poison pill is too many in a caravan.”You can watch the clip below:People on Twitter were quick to trace the claim from Fox News to the President’s Twitter feed.	Liberal
Three Republican senators criticized Saudi Arabia’s withering explanations for journalist Jamal Khashoggis murder and have called on the Trump administration to take significant action against the kingdom should the Saudi crown prince be found responsible.Saudi Arabia had initially denied any involvement in Khashoggi’s disappearance but claimed via state media last week that Khashoggi, aWashington Postcolumnisthad been strangled in a fistfight with 15 men sent to confront him at the Saudi consulate in Turkey. The kingdom blamed some of the crownprince’s inner circle for the murder, and several high-ranking officials were dismissed if not detained outright.The first legislator, outgoing Senator Bob Corker (TN) said Saudi Arabia’s story “is just not credible” and expressed his belief thatSaudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman was personally involved in the killing.Obviously, if [MBS] has gone forth and murdered this journalist,hes now crossed the line, and there has to be a punishment and a price paid for that, Corker said. Do I think he did it? Yeah. I think he did it..@SenBobCorker on the Crown Prince: "Obviously if he's gone forth and murdered this journalist, he's now crossed the line, and there has to be a punishment and a price to pay for that… Do I think he did it? Yeah. I think he did it." #CNNSOTU pic.twitter.com/aHbGTv98nI— State of the Union (@CNNSotu) October 21, 2018Senator Rand Paul (KY) also weighed in, calling Saudi Arabia’s explanations “insulting.” He suggested that President Donald Trump should follow the lead of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and cease arms sales to the country. (Germany hasI think it stretches credulity to believe that the crown prince wasnt involved in this, Paul told Fox News Sunday.Theres no way 15 people were sent from Saudi Arabia to Turkey to kill a dissident without the approval of the crown prince.Thats why I say we have to be stronger than just saying, Oh, were going to sanction a few of these people and pretend like were doing something. I think we really need to discontinue our arms sales to Saudi Arabia and have a long and serious discussion about whether they want to be an ally or they want to be an enemy,” he added..@RandPaul tells Chris: Theres no way 15 people were sent from Saudi Arabia to Turkey to kill a dissident without the approval of the Crown Prince. #FNS pic.twitter.com/F23CBMhzIq— FoxNewsSunday (@FoxNewsSunday) October 21, 2018Senator Ben Sasse (NE) echoed Senator Paul’s suggestion.We dont do arms sales for the purpose of the profits from arms sales  we do arm sales because we want to be aligned with different countries around the globe that believe in our values, Sasse told CNN. “I think the cover stories from the Saudis are a mess. You dont bring a bone saw to an accidental fistfight. … The Saudis have said a whole bunch of crap thats not right, accurate or true."You don't bring a bone saw to an accidental fist fight," says GOP Sen. Ben Sasse of the Saudis' explanation for journalist Jamal Khashoggi's death. "The Saudis have said a whole bunch of crap that's not right, accurate, or true" #CNNSOTU pic.twitter.com/kplFCzD1nU— CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) October 21, 2018Last week, sources familiar with Khashoggi’s case told CNN thatKhashoggis murder was organized by a high-ranking officer with the General Intelligence Presidency, Saudi Arabias main intelligence service.The report continues:One of those sources described the officer as close to the inner circle of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. It is unclear whether the crown prince authorized an interrogation, abduction or killing. Several officials CNN spoke with said the mission could not have happened without the direct knowledge of the 33-year-old crown prince, the kingdoms de facto ruler, who is known by his initials MBS.A second source said the officer assembled and sent his own team to interrogate Khashoggi. They suspected Khashoggi of having ties to the kingdoms arch rival, Qatar, the source said. There has been no evidence to substantiate Khashoggi had such ties.Another source told CNN the missions organizer was not transparent about what he told Riyadh, which, the source said, explained why the government had no clear information for days.A Turkish official told the network that Khashoggis body was cut into pieces after he was killed two weeks ago.President Donald Trump’s response, meanwhile, has been largely ineffectual.	Liberal
Eric Trump, the second son of President Donald Trump, generated eye rolls across the nation in an appearanceon Fox News talk showOutnumbered.When asked about his father’s widely condemned praise of Rep. Greg Gianforte (R-MT) for assaulting a journalist Eric Trump dismissed the backlash against the comments, which came amidstongoing reports of the brutal murder ofWashington Postjournalist Jamal Khashoggi.“Oh stop, he wasn’t the guy who bodyslammed anybody. He can have fun…By the way, this is exactly why my father won. Because so many people were so sick of the perfectly scripted politician who memorized their little soundbites and they werent any fun and they had no charisma, they had no personality. Hey, to go out as a guy whos a little bitwho is un-P.C. and probably won because hes un-P.C. ‘Anybody who body-slams somebody is my kind of guy’ and joke about it and the whole crowd is laughing, like stop.Many found the comments vile and were sure to let Trump know that he and his father were the only ones who found the president’s comments “fun.”It's not fun for the journalists whose families are getting death threats— Reader Adrift (@ReaderAdrift) October 19, 2018No one is laughing. A man was butchered. In this country, we value the press. Its in the constitution. Go read it.— ChrisStanton (@ChrisStanton) October 19, 2018Does Eric realizes he and his dad are promoting violence and in particular violence against the free press.— Maryanne Gibson (@CharlieD296) October 19, 2018Does Eric realizes he and his dad are promoting violence and in particular violence against the free press.— Maryanne Gibson (@CharlieD296) October 19, 2018Trump directly contradicted statements he’d made onFox and Friendsjustthe day before.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s former lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen is urging Americans to vote against Trump and the Republican party, lest we face many more years of “craziness.”“Listen, here’s my recommendation,” Cohen told CNN on Friday. “Grab your family, grab your friends, grab your neighbors, and get to the polls, because if not, you are going to have another two or another six years of this craziness. So make sure you vote.”Watch the full clip below:"Get to the poll, because if not, you are going to have another two or another six years of this craziness." Michael Cohen, Donald Trump's former lawyer, tells Americans to vote against the President and the Republican Party. pic.twitter.com/xkFgnLaq39— CNN Newsroom (@CNNnewsroom) October 19, 2018These commentsfollowCohen’s tweet last Sunday in which the embattled attorney called the upcoming midterms “the most important vote in our lifetime.”The #MidtermElections2018 might be the most important vote in our lifetime. #GetOutAndVote #VoteNovember6th— Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) October 14, 2018The Twitterverse loves that Cohen has abandoned his loyalty to Trump, for whom Cohen once said he would take a bullet.Not so much anymore, it seems.Trump: Michael Cohen would never flip on me!Cohen: pic.twitter.com/C4uRrBL6lJ— Michael VanDeMar (@mvandemar) October 19, 2018He ain't lying this time— RocketRay (@RocketRay) October 19, 2018youre  ok  in  my book  mike  cohen..  you will go down in history  by  doing the  right  thing….— pghphil (@mushinpgh) October 19, 2018This grin on his face! To me it says he has been giving it to Trump BIGLY! — Cervido (@Cervido) October 19, 2018Others noticed that Cohen – despite his legal entanglements and looming prison sentence – is giving off an aura of calm.He looks much healthier and he looks like hes at peace with himself— vvotaw (@vvotaw) October 19, 2018youre  ok  in  my book  mike  cohen..  you will go down in history  by  doing the  right  thing….— pghphil (@mushinpgh) October 19, 2018He looks more human— Martine M (@MartineEM) October 19, 2018Cohen also spoke about where his loyalties lie.To be crystal clear, he told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos in June, my wife, my daughter, and my son, and this country have my first loyalty.Cohen has become a formidable voice of dissent against his long-time boss and client.	Liberal
Republican incumbent Senator Ted Cruz is in a tight race to retain his Senate seat. Canadian born Cruz faces El Paso born and raised Democrat Beto O’Rourke who hopes to trade in his seat in the House of Representatives for Cruz’s seat in the Senate.With the competition tight and time running out, President Donald Trump took to Twitter Friday to try to bolster Cruz’s support in Texas by attacking O’Rourke. In his tweet, the President said:“Beto ORourke is a total lightweight compared to Ted Cruz, and he comes nowhere near representing the values and desires of the people of the Great State of Texas. He will never be allowed to turn Texas into Venezuela!”Beto ORourke is a total lightweight compared to Ted Cruz, and he comes nowhere near representing the values and desires of the people of the Great State of Texas. He will never be allowed to turn Texas into Venezuela! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 19, 2018But people never forgot that back during the 2016 presidential campaign, candidate Trump had something very different to say about Ted Cruz. And his wife. And his father.Is there another tweet today or was this your full purge of BS, exaggerations and fear mongering rhetoric?You hated Ted Cruz as an opponent.. You trashed his wife.. And now you need him for your majority..You don’t hold a candle to #Beto..#VoteBlue #FridayFeeling #Trump The Wiseman Said??? (@TheWisemanSaid2) October 19, 2018pic.twitter.com/JzNVt4EtPZ Kyle State (@state45) October 19, 2018Do you mean this guy ???????? pic.twitter.com/QdQYUwBVGO Barbara Marshall (@BBbmarsh) October 19, 2018pic.twitter.com/NJ1Gcbs0Dm GIF/MEME QUEEN ! TYPE W CAPS & SOMETIMES SWEAR (@ifudontlike2bad) October 19, 2018pic.twitter.com/x8dz7RFZIv Lucillia Marcely (@LucilliaMarcely) October 19, 2018pic.twitter.com/tpfitcGphs Lucillia Marcely (@LucilliaMarcely) October 19, 2018So Lyin’ @tedcruz, whose dad killed Kennedy, is bringing you to Houston with his ugly wife to fill a hall with a capacity of 8,000 people while @BetoORourke brings 55.,000 to Austin. Who’s the lightweight? BTW, those were your words about Cruz, not mine. Nita Cosby (@5_2blue) October 19, 2018Sure Donnie, Ted Cruz cant even stand up to a putz like you calling his wife a dog and accusing his dad of assassinating JFK… he sure as hell isnt going to stand up for Texas.#FireTedCruz #BetoForTexas #BetoForSenate #VoteBetoYeah…come on, Ted????https://t.co/PUDRlxqx1u Hadley Sheley (@HadleySheley) October 19, 2018Are you talking of the guy you nick named “Lyin’ Ted”, and insulted his WIFE ON TWITTER BY PERSONALLY POSTING THE BELOW PIC? Oh & said TED’S DAD INVOLVED IN “KENNEDY ASSASSINATION”? – Attacked his FAITH?This is who U R now endorsing?Two-faced liar! pic.twitter.com/N2xnJeiHfy Bonnie Boden (@designergirla) October 19, 2018Trump is SO right. Dont vote for all talk no action politician Ted Cruz pic.twitter.com/U1R3xHG8Br Blue New World (@BlueNewWorld) October 19, 2018https://t.co/Xh0pfAZFfu Bogart (@BanDogArt) October 19, 2018Is that the Ted whose wife you thought was ugly and whose father you accused of killing President Kennedy? That deadweight Cruz? Catriona Leodhas???????????? (@catnicfingin) October 19, 2018Remember when you said his dad conspired to kill JFK? Tara B (@tarabea80) October 19, 2018People also disagreed with Trump’s assessment of O’Rourkeand Cruzand let the President know.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is facing harsh criticism from the White House Correspondents’ Association after he praised a Republican Congressman who body slammed a reporter last year.“All Americans should recoil from the president’s praise for a violent assault on a reporter doing his Constitutionally protected job,” White House Correspondents’ Association president Olivier Knox said in a statement. “This amounts to the celebration of a crime by someone sworn to uphold our laws and an attack on the First Amendment by someone who has solemnly pledged to defend it. We should never shrug at the president cheerleading for a violent act targeting a free and independent news media.”WHCA Statement on Presidents Remarks in Montana pic.twitter.com/vOwn6riBES— WHCA (@whca) October 19, 2018Representative Greg Gianforte (R-MT) body-slammed Guardian reporter Ben Jacobs in 2017 after Jacobs asked a question about health care.At a campaign event in Missoula, Montana on Thursday, Trump said that“any guy who can do a body slam … he’s my guy,” referring to Gianforte. “I shouldn’t say this,” Trump said, adding that “there’s nothing to be embarrassed about.”Trump told the cheering Montana crowd how he reacted when he heard about the incident.“Then I said, well wait a minute, I know Montana pretty well, I think it might help him,” Trump said, “And it did.”Twitter immediately chimed in by blasting Republicans for their hypocritical calls for “civility” as Trump endorses violence against the press.Is this what they mean by civility?— Lisa Chemberlin (@Lisa_Chemberlin) October 19, 2018Gee encouraging  mob violence  towards a member of the free press all while Donnie Trump refers to the other party as a mob …typical Trumpian projection.— FORTIS (@fortismind) October 19, 2018The press should start highlighting all of those people who cheer Trumps calls for violence. Start naming and shaming them in public like Trump does to his opponents. Time to fight fire with fire in the form of public humiliation to stop the cheering.— Kros Rhodes (@KrosRhodes) October 19, 2018The #MAGA morons don't care. Tomorrow they will all repeat these comments around whatever passes for water coolers at their jobs without a thought about their consequences…..— Raul A. Maestri, Jr. (@ItsgoodtobeRaul) October 19, 2018Trump has routinely chided the free press as “the enemy of the people” and has referred to Democrats as a “left-wing mob.” His words in Montana, however, tell a much different story, as the audience cheered when Trump praised Gianforte.https://twitter.com/AeynaLali/status/1053313011161722880When #45 praises #violence by a #GOP #politician who pleaded guilty to #assault while calling Dems a mob, understand this traitor and criminal is #projecting and #gaslighting his base. That they still dont see they are being played is the line between irony and disbelief. — Robyn Lyn (@robynlynre) October 19, 2018I am recoiling at what Trump said and did at this rally.  What is wrong with the people in this crowd laughing and cheering an assult of a journalist.— Kathleen Peterson (@Kathlee88308769) October 19, 2018Jefferson said it best When the speech condemns a free press you are hearing the words of a tyrant— The Chicago 99ers (@TheChicago99ers) October 19, 2018Sadly this matters neither to @realDonaldTrump nor his political base. The assault on the free Press will increase in the coming years and @realDonaldTrump will lead the attack— Henrik Schou (@Hesc1007) October 19, 2018What Trump said is true – Gianforte went on to win a U.S. House seat in a special election while facing legal consequences for his actions.Gianforte was convicted of misdemeanor assault and received a 180-day deferred sentence. He was also ordered to perform 40 hours of community service, take 20 hours of anger management and pay a $300 fine along with an $85 court fee.He took me to the ground, Jacobs said after the attack. I think he whaled on me once or twice  He got on me and I think he hit me  This is the strangest thing that has ever happened to me in reporting on politics.The WHCA also faced some blowback from people who are tired of the dishonesty emitted from the White House on a near-daily basis.	Liberal
A new poll from Vanderbilt University regarding the Tennessee Senate race indicates that Republican enthusiasm following the hard-fought confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court may have been short-lived.Democratic candidate and former governor Phil Bredesen has just a one percent lead over Republican candidate Rep. Marsha Blackburn, with the candidates at 44 and 43 percent to replace retiring Republican Senator Bob Corker. Following the Kavanaugh hearings, Blackburn saw an eight point spike in support, while Bredesen lost some Democratic backing for saying he would have voted to confirm Kavanaugh.NEW TN-Sen poll:Bredesen 44%Blackburn 43%https://t.co/Ilfi6XUSzU— Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) October 18, 2018Previous polls have shown Bredesen trailing Blackburn by a wide margin and many Republicans believed that voter enthusiasm for Kavanaugh’s nomination and subsequent confirmation – combined with the fact that Tennessee hasn’t had a Democratic senator since the 90’s – would assure victory for Blackburn.Now, some believe that this enthusiasm may not last until election day on November 6.This is after many polls showed Blackburn on top. The Kavanaugh effect has dropped. And I still think Trump will say & do things to cause every candidate's numbers to slide for the GOP. https://t.co/KOqWFgbMYZ— Snarkasm Practitioner (@SaxonThegn) October 18, 2018Brett is a one bump chump— Brock (@Brockdoctor) October 19, 20183 possibilities 1) its a lousy poll and an outlier2) Kavanaugh effect thats been helping GOP in red states is wearing off3) people watched the debate and realized Blackburn is a frigging idiot Probably some combination of the above. Hopefully #1 isnt true though. https://t.co/0hoeS00olC— NY Rangers Fan (@DarakNy) October 18, 2018The Tenessee Senate race is @VoteMarsha 57.8% while Phil Bredesen at 55.0% I think those are the accurate numbers anyway everyone was so happy that @VoteMarsha was up tremendously after the so-called Kavanaugh bump well that effect is wearing off dramatically…— Benjamin (@benbaca2015) October 12, 2018While many are chalking up the sudden tightness of the race to a loss of Republican enthusiasm, others are attributing the boost for Bredesen to another national figure – and an unlikely one at that.	Liberal
Scientists say they may have completed yet another piece of the puzzle that could lead to same-sex partners someday being able to bear genetic offspring.However, its only been attempted in mice, and experts say theres a long way to go before it could even be considered for humans.While living mice produced by same-sex mouse partners have been born before, the process has only been successful with two females. A Chinese study published in October in the journal Cell Stem Cell reports, though, that for the first time living pups have been produced from two males.Typically, when placental mammals reproduce, the sperm and the egg work together in whats called imprinting, when parts of the mother’s DNA and parts of the father’s DNA get different tags that affect how they will work in the offspring.For the experiment, scientists cut out the genes that carried these kinds of imprinting-dependent tags  for females they found they had to cut three, and for males, seven. The research team ultimately made 200 attempts at creating mouse pups with two mothers, and succeeded 27 times.However, it took 500 attempts to make mouse pups with two fathers, resulting in 12 live births. And, unlike the female mices babies, none of the males offspring survived to adulthood. In fact, only two lived longer than 48 hours.Not exactly surprising, given that offspring produced by two males is virtually unheard of in nature, while some fish, frogs and lizards  Komodo dragons, for example  can naturally produce young with two females.To make an individual, you have to have an egg; males don’t have eggs, Richard Behringer, a developmental biologist at the University of Texas, told National Geographic.Edited stem cells can simply be inserted into the egg of another female, but for two males, the process is quite a bit more complicated. To make bipaternal offspring, the scientists must inject sperm and the edited stem cells into an immature egg without a nucleus, the component where most genetic material is stored. The egg then has to be matured outside a surrogate mouse before it can be successfully implanted in her uterus.	Liberal
On last night’s episode ofThe Daily Show, host Trevor Noah suggested black people should register as Republicans to stymie voter suppression efforts.Every black person in America needs to register as a Republican,” he said.Justsayyoure gonna vote red. You dont have to do it, just say Im a Republican,’Noah added. When you come out and they ask you who you voted for you, just go, Yo, snitches get stitches. Thats all you do.Noah made the joke while discussing thegubernatorial race in Georgia between Democrat Stacey Abrams and Republican Brian Kemp. Kemp, who is currently Georgia’s Secretary of State, has faced withering criticism over his refusal to step down (meaning he is effectively overseeing his own election) and his decision to place 53,000 voter registrations on hold. 70 percent of these registrations are for black voters who are expected to overwhelmingly vote for his opponent.Noah continued, explaining his reasoning:“Hear me out:Just say youre going to vote red. You dont have to do it, just be like, Im a Republican. When you come out and they ask you who you voted for, just be like, Yo, snitches get stitches. I guarantee you, if the G.O.P. thinks that black people are voting for them, they will be making sure that your vote counts. Theyre going to be waving Trayvons into the voting booth like a third-base coach.Noah also joked that the tactics which successfully suppress votes would never work with an organization like, say, the IRS:Youre telling me that some people wont get to vote just because their voter name doesnt match the name on file? Its funny how this happens with voting, but it never stops the I.R.S. The I.R.S. is never like, Oh, we had Trevok Noah, I guess you dont have to pay taxes this year! No, they would be, like, Trevor, hey, you misspelled your name, dumbass. And you owe us 20 grand!If Republicans believed black voters would turn out the vote for them, Noah proposed, then they’d do everything in their power to help them along.If you dont believe me, just look at Kanye West. Before him, they were like, Just shut up and dribble!’ Noah said. But all he had to do was put on a MAGA hat, and they let him into the White House to yell at the president about time travel.Noah referred to a rambling, off-the-cuff meeting musician West had with President Donald Trump last week during which he explained that he supports the president becauseHillary Clintons presidential campaign did not resonate with him as a man and there was something about donning a Make America Great Again, or MAGA, hat thatmade me feel like Superman.And, addressing the racial component to voter suppression efforts, Noah said, “You don’t have to say who you’re targeting to target someone,you just have to know which rules are likely to hit them the most.”	Liberal
Former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA) on Wednesday told Sean Hannity that the 2018 midterms are going to be determined by two words – and President Donald Trump tried to turn them into a campaign slogan.I think two words are going to define the 2018 election in the next three weeks,” Gingrich predicted on Fox News. “One is Kavanaugh and the other is caravan.”“The combination of anger over how the left smeared, engaged in character assassination, lied, used bullying tactics with Judge Kavanaugh is going to be one part of this,” he said of the new Supreme Court Justice.Gingrich then accused “the left” of wanting to shuttle “3,000 people in a caravan” across “the American border” to “break American law,” and “recognizing if that happens the next caravan will be even bigger and the caravan after that will be even bigger.” No evidence was presented to support the existence of caravans supported by Democrats.Watch the full clip below:.@newtgingrich on midterm elections: I think two words are going to define the 2018 election in the next three weeks. One is Kavanaugh and the other is caravan." #Hannity pic.twitter.com/2hORuYj3cz— Fox News (@FoxNews) October 18, 2018At a campaign rally in Missoula, Montana on Thursday, Trump parroted Gingrich’s remarks.The midterms“will be an election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law and order, and common sense,” Trump bellowed. “It’s gonna be an election of those things: law and order, Kavanaugh, common sense, and the caravan.”“You know what I’m talking about,” Trump said, offering no evidence to back up his remarks.No one in the audience appeared to know what Trump was talking about. His words landed with a thud, garnering no applause or cheers even after he repeated them.Watch the clip below:Pres. Trump says upcoming midterms "will be an election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law and order, and common sense." https://t.co/WFEEbDnGoc pic.twitter.com/jldNDY3v4S— ABC News (@ABC) October 19, 2018Trump’s comments didn’t fare well on social media either. For many, “common sense” means not voting Republican.Yes…common sense says hes breaking the law, he will order others to cover it up, and Kavanaugh will make sure he isnt convicted.— Wesley Pollard (@PollardPiano) October 19, 2018Common sense says to me don't vote GOP— Glen Towler (@NZAircraftFan) October 19, 2018And on the fact that @realDonaldTrump and the @GOP have lied to us one too many times. We had enough of them now! Its clear. #VoteThemOut— Michelangelo (@_Michelangelo__) October 19, 2018Don the Con doing his thing— Robert Casillas (@CasillasPhoto) October 19, 2018Common Sense.  Does that mean @POTUS is voting Dems?— Loreen Wilson (@gidsmomp) October 19, 2018Common sense? So there's no republicans running?— Dustin C (@Dustin2point0) October 19, 2018Use your common sense, vote for a new law and order party so that we don't end up with another partisan hack job nomination being forced through, like Kavanaugh.I got nothing for the caravan. Those people are running here for salvation. It must be pretty bad over there.— Face Whisperer (@Face_Whisperer) October 19, 2018The law and order and common sense train left the GOP station minutes after Trumps election!— Randal Davis (@RandalDavis12) October 19, 2018Good, it should be. America will stand up and put a halt to Donald J Trumps GOP agenda. pic.twitter.com/nHogEN0mip— Edward (@edsearlgt) October 19, 2018What does he know of common sense???— Phyllis Coe (@trekmom5) October 19, 2018You supporters definitely don't have common sense, their cheering for a conman. You are all supporting white supremacy!— Bk4U (@Bkellerman5) October 19, 2018What the hell does he know about common sense….he's been bankrupt 7 times? He lost the $400 million dollars he was born into….— Susan Collins is Aunt Lydia doing her job (@WonderBitchToo) October 19, 2018Calls for “law and order” coming from Trump didn’t play well either.	Liberal
In a state where the average household income was $56,565 according to the latest statistics, a complaint about your spouse’s $174,000 income plus full benefits would not go over well. But Texas Senator Ted Cruz’s wife Heidi Cruz stated as such in an interview with The Atlantic.The Senator’s wife complained that her hefty salary and benefits as managing director of Goldman Sachs in Houston combined with the $174,000 her husband makes as a United States Senator was insufficient. Mrs. Cruz is the family breadwinner according to The Atlantic article.And although the article does not specify her full salary and benefits package, it is more than $174,000 per year. That puts their household income at a minimum at $350,000 or over six times more than the average Texan.But why is Senator Cruz’s salary not good enough according to his breadwinner wife?In her interview with The Atlantic, Heidi Cruz stated:“…it does take some supportiveness, you know. Six to seven years in it, with me being the primary breadwinner…Yeah, were seven years into this, and were not buying a second home anytime soon.”Cruzwho lives in a home described as “palatial” by The Atlanticdrew heavy criticism for her comment. For many of her husband’s constituents in Texas, even a first home is well beyond their reach.Heidi Cruz insists that “we won’t be buying a second home any time soon” on husband Ted’s 174K salary, pinpointing the Republican Party’s central, hardhitting issue: the second homeless#HeidiCruz Paul Rudnick (@PaulRudnickNY) October 18, 2018wow poor Heidi Cruz, enduring the unimaginable indignity of only owning one home while her husband is away in Washington working his hardest to make life more difficult for people who can barely afford to pay rent https://t.co/HKQGAhLKQH pic.twitter.com/L7wcjASNNp erin possessed doll ryan (@morninggloria) October 18, 2018Poor Heidi Cruz is whining about being the “primary breadwinner” when her husband makes $174K as a US Senator: “We’re not buying a second home anytime soon.” My heart hurts for them. https://t.co/pGDI4YkKOb Joan Walsh (@joanwalsh) October 18, 2018People called out the article as propaganda for Cruz in his bid for reelection against the more charismatic Representative Beto O’Rourke.Heidi Cruz didn’t plan for this either. pic.twitter.com/rKDCsREF4s Tuxedo Jason Mask (@TheLoveBel0w) October 18, 2018I couldn’t continue. It’s just such an obvious attempt at humanizing Cruz through his wife, Heidi. The only thing I learned is that I dislike both of them in equal measure. Holly Fero O’Relly (@AynRandPaulRyan) October 18, 2018This takes puff piece to a whole new level. Langdon (@StillLangdon) October 18, 2018Indeed, sad when you need a bong hit to get through an article. CarpalTunnel ???????????????????????????? (@CapalTunnel) October 18, 2018Mind-boggling that trumpublicans think they’ll look sympathetic cos they can’t afford a SECOND home, and one of a couple “only” makes 175k. (Guess that’s minus kickbacks & bribes.) AmyJ (@Jemappelleamie) October 18, 2018People criticized Cruz for what they deemed her entitled attitude.	Liberal
On Monday, September 24th, the Trump Administration canceled a human fetal tissue research contract that had been brokered by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with a company called Advanced Bioscience Resources on the grounds that serious regulatory, moral, and ethical considerations needed to be investigated. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) further stated that it would determine if adequate alternatives exist to the use of human fetal tissue in HHS funded research and will ensure that efforts to develop such alternatives are funded and accelerated.The debate over how to ethically utilize embryonic stem cells for the discovery and development of new therapeutics for difficult-to-treat medical conditions dogged prior presidents and has now morphed into the fetal tissue controversy that the current administration has engaged. In 2000, shortly after George W. Bush was sworn in as the 43rd President of the United States, he issued an executive order that severely limitedgovernment-fundedd scientific research into embryonic stem cells. This recent declaration by the Trump Administration is likely a political maneuver to galvanize one of the remaining conservative blocks of voters loyal to the President just ahead of the 2018 midterm elections: evangelicals. Monetarily speaking, the canceled contract amounted to just $15,900 that would be given to Advanced Bioscience Resources for a quantity of human fetal tissue that government-sponsored scientists would use to modify laboratory mice such that their immune systems would behave more like that of a human.Scientists have developed a means for transforming a mouse immune system such that it responds to a variety of diseases in a way that a human immune system would. Such a model system allows researchers to test experimental vaccines and treatments on mice without risk to people. Such an approach has been used to produce therapeutics for chickenpox, rubella, measles, polio, rabies, shingles and other diseases. Dr. Lawrence Goldstein, an expert from the University of California, San Diego School of Medicine explained that such mice are incredibly valuable for research of terrible diseases, and there is really no alternative available to modern medicine.Similar to the reasoning for the Bush Administrations executive order, the subject of fetal tissue research has been conflated with the politics of abortion rights. Indeed, the decision by the Trump Administration has been hailed by David Daleiden, a fervent anti-abortion advocate, who has previously used covert video recordings to cast exchanges of human tissue for scientific research in a bad light. He asserted that the review of fetal tissue procurement and experimentation must be exacting and it must terminate all other agreements for baby body parts.Alta Charo, a law professor specializing in biomedical ethics at the University of Wisconsin takes a contrarian position and reinforced the contention that the move by the Trump Administration was driven purely by political motivations in a statement saying: my instinct is that this is driven by politics, and is part of the overall effort to stigmatize and eventually criminalize abortion, as well as part of a larger campaign to roll-back the clock on sexual and reproductive rights.The last time the issue of human fetal tissue flared up in the public forum was back in 2015, when an undercover video was made public depicting a Planned Parenthood surgeon coldly describing the procedure for the collection of embryonic cells from aborted fetuses. Also captured in the video was the doctor negotiating the cost of harvested fetal body parts in a somewhat callous fashion that even made supporters of the use of fetal tissue uncomfortable. Shortly after the video went viral, administrators at Planned Parenthood decried the misleading nature of the video and issued a statement saying that the physician in the video was only describing the standard reimbursement fees for costs associated with tissue donation programs.The Center for Medical Progress that released the inflammatory video sought to discredit Planned Parenthood as an organization that profited off aborted fetuses, inferring that a supply-and-demand situation was being nurtured. The video was ultimately shown to have been cleverly edited to make the conversation seem untoward, and that the uncut version showed the Planned Parenthood official trying to dissuade the notion of profiting from the supply of fetal tissue.Despite the political uproar that the video sparked, a Congressional Research Service report concluded that embryonic cells collected from aborted fetuses have been useful in the understanding and development of cells which mimic many of the properties that they have in a living body, and therefore, can be used as a model for researchers studying basic biological processes.	Liberal
Black Americans for the Presidents Agenda, a pro-Trump super PAC, created an ad to support Arkansas RepresentativeFrench Hill in his reelection campaign against Democrat Clarke Tucker, which claims Democrats could bring back lynchings against black men. Hill represents the state’s 2nd District, which includes parts of Little Rock and is 23 percent black.The ad features a conversation between two black women about the sexual misconduct accusations leveled against recently-confirmed Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, claiming that the accusations are a sign of a shift toward the presumption of guilt before innocence in the United States.This is a real radio ad currently running in Arkansas in support of Republican Congressman French Hill on radio stations targeted to the African American community.  I don't even have words to describe it. pic.twitter.com/vpzt1nGPlc— (((Ben Tribbett))) (@notlarrysabato) October 18, 2018If the Democrats can do that to a white justice of the Supreme Court, one of the women says, what will happen to our husbands, our fathers, or our sons, when a white girl lies on them?“White Democrats will be lynching black folk again,” the second woman responds, adding:We cant afford to let white Democrats take us back to bad old days of race verdicts, life sentences, and lynchings when a white girl screams rape.The ad was immediately condemned.black conservatives really think black people talk like this *facepalm* https://t.co/sRZwCShB54— Oliver Willis (@owillis) October 18, 2018That French Hill radio ad by some group is racist as hell.— Brandon Music (@BrandonMusicKy) October 18, 2018The gaul!!  @notlarrysabato: This is a real radio ad currently running in Arkansas in support of Republican Congressman French Hill on radio stations targeted to the African American community.  I don't even have words to describe it. pic.twitter.com/PVpKIdRqsD— J.A. Blemur (@JABlemurESQ) October 18, 2018@RepFrenchHill  All your ad did was to enraged MORE black people than you could ever imagine.  I wish that I lived in Arkansas so that I could VOTE against you!!People of Arkansas – DO NOT VOTE FOR FRENCH HILL!!!! https://t.co/dTBnuPhBXD— sweetd62 (@sweetd19624) October 19, 2018Next up to endorse Rep French Hill (R-Arkansas), Amos n Andy https://t.co/3wJ2UQrUgB— csdickey (@csdickey) October 19, 2018Hill soon responded, distancing himself from the ad.Some may have heard an appalling ad on the radio.  I condemn this outrageous ad in the strongest terms. I do not support that message, and there is no place in Arkansas for this nonsense.— French Hill (@ElectFrench) October 18, 2018Tucker, his opponent, had earlier condemned the ad, writing: “Rep. Hill & his allies will have to live with the kind of campaign they’re running.”Rep. Hill & his allies will have to live with the kind of campaign they're running. This radio ad is disgraceful & has no place in our society. We won't let these shameful tactics distract us from our fight to stand up for the people in #AR02 on the critical issues in our lives. https://t.co/KErJAOdsel— Clarke Tucker (@clarketucker) October 18, 2018Hill later claimed his opponent had “decided to spread this race baiting ad rather than join in bipartisan condemnation of this message.”My opponent decided to spread this race baiting ad rather than join in bipartisan condemnation of this message.  I call on @clarketucker to delete his tweet spreading this message unbecoming of political discourse. #arpx— French Hill (@ElectFrench) October 18, 2018	Liberal
Georgia’s Secretary of State and Republican gubernatorial candidate Brian Kemp is getting hammered on social media after a video posted to his official Secretary of State website showing a young black girl being denied the chance to vote was shared widely on Thursday.The video, which was taken down after Newsweek reported on it, features kids entering a polling station and going through the voting process to demonstrate how early voting in Georgia works.First a white boy votes without a problem, but then when a young African American girl goes to vote, she can’t since she doesn’t have the proper identification. The video explains that without an ID, voters can cast a provisional ballot that will only be counted if the voter returns within three days with a photo ID. If they don’t, the ballot will be rejected.Watch the clip below:Wow. So on the SOS website #BrianKemp has an advance voting video. Take a look at who gets to vote and who doesnt. Nice messaging, Kemp. Please just #resign already. #gapol #gagov #TeamAbrams pic.twitter.com/D4gmMeb4Cw— Anjali Enjeti (@anjalienjeti) October 18, 2018Social media blasted Kemp for having produced such a tone-deaf video, considering the pervasive disenfranchisement of minorities.He was also accused of outright racism.NEW UPDATE:until it drew attention today, #GAgov nominee Brian Kemp's official Secretary of State website featured an early voting explainer video in which a little white boy casts his ballot, while a black girl gets rebuffed for lacking ID.https://t.co/3KoR4v4VyQ pic.twitter.com/ik1ZUisnDi— Jesse Lehrich (@JesseLehrich) October 18, 2018So tone DEAF! Couldnt even fake it in a video.— Debra Brown (@brown44531) October 18, 2018Not even trying to disguise the racism. Wow is right.— ellen (@ellendross) October 18, 2018Wow. A video put out Brian Kemps office to promote early voting shows a black girl being denied a ballot because she lacks the appropriate ID. The white boy has ID and is allowed to vote. https://t.co/Rbz10gvacj https://t.co/dyD8OuLPMt— Kira Lerner (@kira_lerner) October 18, 2018Racist much, Brian Kemp? And of course, you took the video down after the dog whistle was blown. https://t.co/q3Hm7iga6m— Crooks and Liars (@crooksandliars) October 18, 2018GA Sec of State Brian Kemp dreams about Jim Crow. https://t.co/nUdwCIrY1r— Judith Browne Dianis (@jbrownedianis) October 18, 2018Oh look @BrianKempGA , you're getting MORE bad national news. #RacistRevealed #VoterSuppression #gapol #LyinBrian https://t.co/3cfVpa2yez— A.B. Kay (@ABKayEl) October 18, 2018#KrianBempster is at it again.  The most corrupt, unethical & amoral politician in Georgia's HISTORY (worse than Lester Maddox even?) who's set a low bar precedence to count the votes in his own race; In his interest not your interest  @gapol @BrianKempGA https://t.co/WaoYGwxlgH— Packy (@Packy48) October 18, 2018This video says everything about #racist @BrianKempGA – the black girl is denied a ballot because she lacks ID, but the white boy is allowed to vote. Read between the lines. I'm not saying @staceyabrams is perfect, but she's not RACIST like #BrianKemp https://t.co/PL3xB6Z09B— Pankaj Ramani (@pmramani) October 18, 2018Kemp is locked in a tight race against Democrat Stacey Abrams, who if elected would become the country’s first black female governor.	Liberal
According to campaign finance reports, the Trump Victory and Make America Great Again fundraising entities raised around $106 million towards President Donald Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign. Of that amount, Trump passed about $21 million on to national and state GOP coffers.But some Republicans say that is not enough.If the President wants to retain control of Congress after the November midterms, RNC members state he should be helping more. Instead, they accuse Trump of sitting on over $47 million in funds that could be used by the GOP.Looking to 2020, @realDonaldTrump continues to pull in massive fundraising hauls, having raised $106 million since January 2017 – he still has almost $47 million on hand. https://t.co/UMoN41baFx OpenSecrets.org (@OpenSecretsDC) October 18, 2018Not since Reagan: @realDonaldTrump tops $100 million in fundraising for his own reelection https://t.co/G1uc6RiLLS #MAGA #AmericaFirst #Dobbs Lou Dobbs (@LouDobbs) October 16, 2018Republican strategist Alex Conant stated:“Helping congressional Republicans hasnt been a priority for Trump until the last few weeks. Nobody faults him for raising money for his re-election campaign, but if Democrats win, it may be the most costly fundraising a presidents ever done.”And according to polls and projections, who controls the House of Representatives and the Senate after November is anyone’s guess. Races across the country are too close to call.In response to the concerns of the GOP, the Trump team pointed out all of the rallies the President attends to support Republican candidates. However the rallies are touted under Trump’s personal slogan of “Make America Great Again” and the President’s main topic of his speeches is himself, not the candidates he is there to support.As for Trump himself, he stated his endorsement alone should be enough. In his usual style of exaggeration, the President stated:“I will say that we have a very big impact. I dont believe anybodys ever had this kind of an impact.”“They would say that in the old days that if you got the support of a president or if youve got the support of somebody it would be nice to have, but it meant nothing, zero. Like literally zero.”“Some of the people Ive endorsed have gone up 40 and 50 points just on the endorsement.”The President did not supply the names of any candidates that went up 40 to 50 points after his endorsement. Word of Trump’s 2020 war chest spread quickly after his fundraising milestone was revealed.	Liberal
Republican Governor of Wisconsin Scott Walker approval rating is one of the worst in the country and it doesn’t look like he can count on recommendations from his former cabinet secretaries either.The governor’s Former secretary of the Department of Commerce Paul Jadin signed onto a scathing letter decrying Governor Walker for his fixation on self-advancement, his eagerness to bend the truth or outright lie, as well as blaming him for Wisconsin’s crumbling infrastructure.To make matters worse, the letter is signed by two other former secretaries in Walker’s cabinet – Corrections Secretary Ed Wall and former Financial Institutions Secretary Peter Bildsten – all endorsing Walker’s Democratic opponent, Democrat Tony Evers.The letter pulls no punches, saying:“Internally, Governor Walker has consistently eschewed sound management practices in favor of schemes or coverup and has routinely put his future ahead of the state. The result is micromanagement, manipulation and mischief. We have all been witness to more than our share of this. It’s time to build a more open and transparent government to ensure the integrity of our public agencies and institutions.”Then, adding insult to injuries, Walker’s former employees endorsed his opponent:We have served our state and local governments in many capacities over our careers and have voted for and supported Republicans. Therefore, we come to this next statement only after a great deal of reflection and discernment. On November 6, 2018 please vote with us for Tony Evers.Another of Walker’s employees – formerSecretary of Transportation Mark Gottlieb – has also come out against the governor for lying about road funding, however he did not sign the letter nor has he endorsed Walker’s opponent Tony Evers.Many on Twitter weren’t exactly surprised that even Walker’s former employees were dismayed by his tenure as governor.I'm more surprised that four people he appointed weren't convicted of any crime in office and can still vote…— NHolshouser (@nthewoods) October 18, 2018#scottwalker the truth hurts when it comes from the people who know #Scotthole best…Fourth former Scott Walker secretary comes forward to criticize governor https://t.co/ef0pALlpC3— Random (@Random_Dem) October 18, 2018Glad someones saying what we all knew. Wish it would make a difference.— Jessie Flagg (@JessieFlagg1) October 18, 2018Well thats a big fat no duh.— Thomas Sallustio (@Tindertwig) October 18, 2018They hadn’t forgotten about the secretaries who penned the letter either.	Liberal
On Wednesday, Tennessee Republican Senator Bob Corker accused the Trump administration of withholding information regarding the disappearance and suspected execution of Washington Post contributor Jamal Khashoggi. Authorities believe Khashoggi was murdered at the Saudi Arabian consulate in Turkey.Khashoggi was a Saudi citizen living in the United States. He spoke out against the Saudi government.Since Khashoggi’s disappearance and suspected murder, President Donald Trump and other members of the Trump administration defended the most likely suspect, Crown PrinceMohammed bin Salman. Trump also assured the press and public that the Saudi government was not involved in Khashoggi’s disappearance.But Corkerwho ischairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committeetold The Washington Post:“I can only surmise that probably the intel is not painting a pretty picture as it relates to Saudi Arabia.”Corker also stated the Trump administration “clamped down” on sharing any of that intelligence information with Congress. The Trump White House canceled a Tuesday intelligence briefing andaccording to Corkertold him they would not shareadditional information with the Senate at this time.On Wednesday, Corker stated all indications from the intelligence he received before the Trump administration crack down showed “everything points  to [Mohammed bin Salman]”. The Republican Senator added:“This could not have happened without his approval.”People pointed to the Trump Organization’s business ties to Saudi Arabia as a possible reason for the President’s vehement denial of any wrongdoing by the Saudi government on Twitter. But that criticism goes back to when Trump first proposed his Muslim travel ban.Despite Osama bin Laden and the terrorists of 9/11 being from Saudi Arabia, Trump left that country off his travel ban. People asked then what businesses the Trump Organization or Jared Kushner had with the Saudis.I have great confidence in King Salman and the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, they know exactly what they are doing…. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 6, 2017What was Kushner doing in Saudi Arabia? HillReporter.com (@HillReporter) November 6, 2017I wouldn’t be surprised U R linked to any of these Dirty Saudi in #MoneyLaundering scheme. Bad Hotel Scheme no doubt! PrinceS (@snooperprince) November 8, 2017Yeah, how’d that secret meeting between Saudi royals & Jared go? Coincidence that overthrow happened so soon after his visit. ?? The Destroyer??? (@blndvmpyr) November 12, 2017Of course you do. They fund you. beth harris (@bethharrisLA) November 8, 2017After Trump’s recent tweets defending the Saudis…Just spoke to the King of Saudi Arabia who denies any knowledge of whatever may have happened to our Saudi Arabian citizen. He said that they are working closely with Turkey to find answer. I am immediately sending our Secretary of State to meet with King! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 15, 2018Just spoke with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia who totally denied any knowledge of what took place in their Turkish Consulate. He was with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo… Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2018…during the call, and told me that he has already started, and will rapidly expand, a full and complete investigation into this matter. Answers will be forthcoming shortly. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2018	Liberal
The Trump Organization is suing the estate of the man who died in a fire in his Trump Tower apartment earlier this year for unpaid condo and maintenance fees, court filings show.Todd Brassner perished when an electrical fire engulfed his 50th-floor unit in Trump Tower in April. Brassner was a long-time resident of Trump Tower and worked as an art dealer. He amassed a collection of instruments and art worth millions, none of which survived the blaze.Brassner’s apartment was not equipped with smoke alarms or sprinklers due in large part to now-President Donald Trump’s opposition to having them installed in the 1990’s. He claimed the $4 per foot cost was too much.Now, in a lawsuit filed with the New York Supreme Court,theResidential Board of Trump Tower Condominium is suing Brassner’s estate for $64,000 in unpaid condo fees and an additional $25,000 “legal fees and expenses incurred” by the Board.The filing states:“By reason of the foregoing, there is now due, and owing to the Condominium the sum of $64,640.34 as of September 24, 2018, as well as additional common charges and additional common charges which will or may come due during the pendency of this action.”In addition:“As a result, Plaintiff is entitled to a money judgment in an amount to be determined at trial, but believed to be at least $25,000.00.”Twitter thinks this is a dirty move, even for Trump.No smoke alarms and no sprinklers. Trump is a damn slum lord.— Mary Ann for peace (@msadie9575) October 18, 2018The Trump Organization is suing a the estate of a man who died in a fire in his Trump Tower apartment that had no smoke detectors.Says he owed them for maintenance fees.https://t.co/gQmkvoqo7F— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) October 18, 2018No smoke detectors! Very basic safety measure skimped on to save dollars. #Trump is El #Cheapo https://t.co/Ddgyu2FH9V— Mike (@mnike_likes_it) October 18, 2018"As you may know by now, when you attack (Donald) he will punch back 10 times harder. No matter who you are, a man or a woman, he treats everyone equal." – Melania Trump.She needs to be update this next time to include "burned to death or living."— pwithm11 (@pwtham11) October 18, 2018No, actually, I would hope that anyone stooping that low would be pilloried in public.— Frizzy Headed Witch Dyke (@blkroisin) October 18, 2018The sleaze literally oozes from every fiber this cancer on American society. He needs to move himself and his spawn to moscow— LACar523 (@Lacar523) October 18, 2018HEARTLESS!!!— Donna Longo (@birderseye) October 18, 2018So typical of the Trump family, including Jared in terms of how his company dealt with tenants in the real estate his family owns. Its all so very shabby!— Jeanine Barone (@JCreatureTravel) October 18, 2018WTF????— Praying for impeachable offenses (@lovesgarrison) October 18, 2018We may never know how low he will go! Check for anything that sounds like a heartbeat.?— sherry Reality Winner (@sherry_bath) October 18, 2018No shame and soulless #Trump— ML CLIFF (@mlcliff) October 18, 2018Just when I think they cant surprise me….— bardgal (@bardgal) October 18, 2018I'd expect no less from @realDonaldTrump. He wants to take away healthcare from those that need it the most, cuts programs that help the most vulnerable., locks children in cages & sends 5 year olds to court without an attorney. Of course, he'd go after the dead for a few bucks.— Nony2U (@chardonnay4me2) October 18, 2018Guess trump needs money to pay his own fines for not having his building up to code, again. God, this is terrible.— Vote Nov 6th (@nastystacface) October 18, 2018How disgusting.— RoseMSerrano (@NYCArtistRoseMS) October 18, 2018Others weren’t surprised because it’s Trump.	Liberal
The Republican representative of Virginia’s 7th District, David Brat, is taking heat for a comment many saw as tactless.While meeting with recovering addicts at a local jail on Wednesday, one woman told Brat her worries regarding life after her release. While most politicians up for re-election would typically express care and concern. Brat took another route.Brat said to the inmate:You think youre having a hard time?Ive got $5 million worth of negative ads coming at me. How do you think Im feeling? Nothings easy. For anybody.He went on:You think Im a congressman, Oh, lifes easy, this guys off having steaks every day. Baloney. Ive got a daughter, shes got to deal with that crap on TV every day.You can listen to his comments below:An odd moment from @DaveBratVA7th's visit to an addiction support group at Chesterfield County Jail: After an inmate describes some of the difficulties she'd face upon release, Brat says his life isn't all roses either, pointing to attack ads from @SpanbergerVA07 pic.twitter.com/uVDW4jsAhs— Ben Paviour (@BPaves) October 18, 2018While Brat may have beenattempting to indicate that he, like the inmates, had struggles as well, people were quick to slam the Congressman for his insensitivity.Coming up with a job or whatever. Such sensitivity. #flipthe7th #TeamSpanberger— Tracey van Marcke (@marckemywords) October 18, 2018.@DaveBratVA7th thinks his life is harder than someone whos been in jail and getting out to face rebuilding life. Brat doesnt like it when women get in his grill to ask questions. Brat doesnt belong in political office. Hes a weak whiner who has done nothing useful.— J Dub (vote November 6) (@jweland) October 18, 2018Way to be divisive and hateful Ben and use people in recovery for political purposes. Shameful— SpanbergerLies alot – VA7thTownHallTroll (@Troll_Troll4Fun) October 18, 2018The longer version is not better.  He initially made it about him and then made it clear that they would be on their own once released. Basically, Go find a church or join a team or workout. Do what you can but dont expect any Policy to alleviate any of your challenges.— Kuumba Tendaji (@kimadastwin) October 18, 2018For Brat, the backlash couldn’t come during a more crucial race.	Liberal
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) said on Wednesday that if Republicans maintain control of Congress after the midterms, they will once again attempt to repeal Obamacare.If we had the votes to completely start over, wed do it. But that depends on what happens in a couple weeks,” McConnell said. “Were not satisfied with the way Obamacare is working.McConnell referred to the GOP’s failed crusades to repeal the health care law asthe one disappointment of this Congress from a Republican point of view.”Considering polls show healthcare at the top of voters’ concerns this year — and Democrats around the country are running on preserving it — this is seen as an opportunity for Democrats less than three weeks out from election day.if Democrats don’t make this into every single ad between now and the election they are committing political malpractice https://t.co/ERBkvhxhbY Sarah Jaffe (@sarahljaffe) October 17, 2018And in fact Democrats wasted no time in pouncing on McConnell’s words.If Republicans retain the Senate they will do everything they can to take away families health care and raise their costs, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) said in a statement. Americans should take Senator McConnell at his word.Other Democrats both inside and outside of the Senate sounded the alarm.Senate Republicans: still coming for your healthcarehttps://t.co/DUBQhVuNMo— Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) October 17, 2018It's official: Republicans will try to repeal the Affordable Care Act (again) if they win enough seats in November. We can't sit this election out. Health care is on the line. https://t.co/mpYU0zJsg6— Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) October 17, 2018The GOP wants to try again to kick tens of millions of Americans off of their health insurance, strip away protections for people with pre-existing conditions, and spike the cost of premiums for everyone. Ill do everything in my power to stop them. https://t.co/QEUSJVBKAQ— Kamala Harris (@SenKamalaHarris) October 17, 2018Want another reason to turn out in November and vote for Democrats? Mitch McConnell is admitting that Republicans will repeal Obamacare if given the chance. We CANNOT allow this to happen! VOTE! https://t.co/BiDr6MMdVR— Jeff Merkley (@JeffMerkley) October 18, 2018This is the choice Americans will make in November. Do you want Republicans to try again to slash protections for people with pre-existing conditions? Or do you want a health care system that works for everyone? The choice is yours, America.https://t.co/JAIRF8DWPo— Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) October 17, 2018Last year people spoke up and made their voices heard to stop the awful Trumpcare bill, but President Trump & Senate Republicans still want to sabotage our health care. https://t.co/yEKgBe3rWu— Senator Patty Murray (@PattyMurray) October 18, 2018Make no mistakePresident Trump and Senate Republicans continue to plan their assault on health care for families across the country. https://t.co/yEKgBel2O2— Senator Patty Murray (@PattyMurray) October 17, 2018Republicans must stop their sabotage of our health care system. They must stop driving up prices. They must work with Democrats to address the damage they've done so we can increase access and lower prices for patients and families.   https://t.co/yEKgBe3rWu— Senator Patty Murray (@PattyMurray) October 18, 2018Americans deserve fully-funded Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security both because living with dignity should be a right, and because workers *earn* these benefits. Theyre not privileges.  Republicans will try to steal them if they retain Congress. https://t.co/T2YdeCaghz— Ed Markey (@SenMarkey) October 17, 2018We fought back against Republicans' attacks on Americans' health care before and well keep fighting back as long as these reckless attacks continue. https://t.co/7nSLVgwenb— Sen. Maggie Hassan (@SenatorHassan) October 17, 2018Republican control of the Senate next Congress means one thing: more health care uncertainty and sabotage. Majority Leader McConnell made that clear today advocating for another try at an ACA repeal and potential cuts to Medicare and Medicaid: https://t.co/bM2xTvEnTQ— Senator Dick Durbin (@SenatorDurbin) October 17, 2018Health care is on the ballot in this election. Im running to protect the 2.8 million Arizonans with pre-existing conditions. @MarthaMcSally voted to gut their protections. The choice is clear. #AZSenhttps://t.co/qRUCafL71V— Kyrsten Sinema (@kyrstensinema) October 17, 2018What's at stake in this election: the GOP will try again to repeal the Affordable Care Act  & protections for pre-existing conditions  if they have the votes in the Senate. To #ProtectOurCare, it's critical we repeal & replace Senator Heller. #NVSenhttps://t.co/Q8sJPV3vvq— Jacky Rosen (@RosenforNevada) October 18, 2018I can think of tens of millions of reasons why this is a bad idea, and they're all Americans who would lose their health care. https://t.co/I4pPKDwFq1— Mayor Bill de Blasio (@NYCMayor) October 18, 2018Affordable health care is on the ballot.If we don't keep #NV03 blue, that's one more vote to strip protections for pre-existing conditions, leaving millions without coverage.I refuse to rubber-stamp an agenda that will hurt Nevadans. #ProtectOurCarehttps://t.co/c3ANKVHjWz— Susie Lee (@SusieLeeNV) October 18, 2018McConnell also plans to go after Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, which he calls “entitlements,” as a means of reducing the federal budget deficit.The spending shortfall has ballooned to nearly $800 billion because of the massive tax cut passage passed late last year, spending increases, and rising interest payments on the national debt.McConnell claimed last year that the tax cuts would pay for themselves.I not only dont think it will increase the deficit, I think it will be beyond revenue-neutral, he said. In other words, I think it will produce more than enough to fill that gap.Now that the tax reductions have exploded the deficit, however, McConnell is taking aim at social safety nets.Its disappointing, but its not a Republican problem, McConnell said Tuesday in an interview with Bloomberg News. Its a bipartisan problem: unwillingness to address the real drivers of the debt by doing anything to adjust those programs to the demographics of America in the future.He added that it would be “very difficult to do entitlement reform, and were talking about Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid.”I think its pretty safe to say that entitlement changes, which is the real driver of the debt by any objective standard,” McConnell said, “may well be difficult if not impossible to achieve when you have unified government.”McConnell reaffirmed his position in an interview with Reuters.We all know that there will be no solution to that, short of some kind of bipartisan grand bargain that makes the very, very popular entitlement programs be in a position to be sustained. That hasnt happened since the 80s, McConnell said.But at some point we will have to sit down on a bipartisan basis and address the long-term drivers of the debt.McConnell’s comments have supporters of the ACA and those that oppose cutting social programs extremely nervous.	Liberal
There are five federally recognized Tribes and one Native American community that fall within the borders of North Dakota. While numbers of Native voters are not enough to win an election completely, their support can decide a close race.In the past, that support went toward helping Democratic Senator Heidi Heitkamp. Native rights advocates like the Native American Rights Fund (NARF) point to this support as the reason behind a new voter ID requirement in North Dakota.North Dakota state issued IDs include a person’s mailing address. Due to a decision by the United States Postal Service (USPS), Natives living on reservations in North Dakota are issued post office boxes instead of receiving rural mail delivery.Because of this USPS decision, Native American IDs and other documents typically used to indicate eligibility to vote, such as utility bills, do not include a physical address, but rather a post office box. Republicans in North Dakota pushed through a law adding a physical address requirement be presented at the polls to be able to vote in North Dakota, whether a voter registered and voted previously or not.The lawwhich disproportionately affected Native American votersfaced legal challenges due to its voter suppression of a specific block of voters. Native Americans did not have the right to vote in their own homeland until 1924, but Native voting rights came with many strings attached and Natives did not have full voting rights until the late 1960s.Citizens in 1924 whether wanted or not. In ND we had to give up our tribal enrollment to vote. We didnt. We couldnt vote officially til the 1965 Voting Rights Act. https://t.co/XL6HbYwk1v ND Native Vote (@NDNativeVote) October 18, 2018However the Supreme Courtin a split decisionruled to uphold the North Dakota voter ID law without an explanation.The US Supreme Court denied NARFs emergency application to stop the State of North Dakota from implementing a discriminatory voter ID law. #VotingRights https://t.co/hmIMBpNmHx NARF (@NDNrights) October 10, 2018Outrageous/Unjust. Rs in North Dakota make it harder for Native Americans to vote. Requiring street address when many of them use P.O. Boxes in rural areas. Supreme Court allows. Law passed after Heitkamp won last time. Nothing more than voter suppression https://t.co/Nu1yWOsaPi Eric Holder (@EricHolder) October 9, 2018So much has been taken from Native American communities over the centuries. And now North Dakota is taking their right to vote. Shameful.https://t.co/R1zVw0bBMs Jeff Merkley (@JeffMerkley) October 16, 2018North Dakota voting law takes away Native American right to vote. #NativeVote https://t.co/kkwV6IQjBW A.A.I.A. (@IndianAffairs) October 14, 2018North Dakota GOP passed voter ID after Dem Sen. Heidi Heitkamp won by just 2,881 votes in 2012’s Senate race. It’s conceivable she would have lost had this law been in effect then, & it could flip #NDsen to the GOP in 2018 in a close election https://t.co/yfGAYbL1Bg Stephen Wolf (@PoliticsWolf) October 10, 2018After the disappointing decision by the SCOTUS to uphold targeted voter suppression, the Tribes and Native rights groups fought back.NARF is coordinating with the 5 ND tribes to provide updated ID cards, or address verification documents, to tribal citizens for the upcoming November elections. #VotingRights https://t.co/fpp1hBThRv NARF (@NDNrights) October 15, 2018NARF is coordinating with the 5 ND tribes to provide updated ID cards, or address verification documents, to tribal citizens for the upcoming November elections. #VotingRights https://t.co/fpp1hBThRv NARF (@NDNrights) October 15, 2018BREAKING: Native Americans push back on North Dakota voter ID rule, announcing in a new statement they will issue street address documents at polling locations to members who need them. pic.twitter.com/tukNkgrV18 Maddow Blog (@MaddowBlog) October 18, 2018If anything good can come of the voter suppression on NoDak Native Americans, may it rally Indian Country to the polls in record numbers. Civil liberties aren’t attacked without reason. The #NativeVote is potent for all the reasons spelled out here: https://t.co/sdzUXyAjr6 Jenni Monet (@jennimonet) October 17, 2018One minor positive–I’m loving seeing all these Native bylines. Can we keep this up forever, please? Dr. Adrienne Keene (@NativeApprops) October 17, 2018North Dakota refuses to tell Native Americans if they can vote with tribal ID — so the tribes are taking action #Maddow https://t.co/j1tSxNPpOv Raw Story (@RawStory) October 18, 2018And then others jumped in to help raise the funds needed to get all Natives who want to vote the documentation they need to make it happen.	Liberal
Japan is facing a potential Y2K meltdown in 2019. Software cant be written with every contingency in mind. The culprit isnt a malicious bug or poorly written code. The problem is that Emperor Akihito will be relinquishing the Chrysanthemum Throne in 2019, and Japanese computers arent ready. The story requires some explanation. The direct line of Japanese emperors dates back more than 3,000 years to Jimmu, who ushered in the Human Era in Japanese society, succeeding the Age of the Gods. Of course, the story of Emperor Jimmu is now considered apocryphal, but the transition from one emperor to the next is considered so momentous an occasion in Japanese culture that a new era is heralded and a new calendar inaugurated.Akihitos ascension to the throne occurred in 1989 after the passing of his father, and ushered in the Heisei Era. Akihikitos reign effectively encompassed the whole of the internet era. Next year, the Heisei period will end when Akihitos son, Naruhito, will become the countrys new ruler. And so Japan will be creating a new character and a calendar for the new emperor, and computer experts are not sure what to expect when Akihito abdicates. The magnitude of this event on computing systems using the Japanese Calendar may be similar to the Y2K event with the Gregorian Calendar, said Microsofts Shawn Steele. For the Y2K event, there was world-wide recognition of the upcoming change, resulting in governments and software vendors beginning to work on solutions for that problem several years before 1 Jan 2000. Even with that preparation, many organizations encountered problems due to the millennial transition.Fortunately, this is a rare event; however it means that most software has not been tested to ensure that it will behave with an additional era.Microsoft has already released a Windows 10 update that allows software developers to start testing simulations. But the Y2K  or Millennial Bug  that all operating systems with the exception of Macintosh faced in 1999 offered years of testing to avert a global tragedy, not months.Naruhitos ascension to the throne is less than six months away, but the situation is even more time constrained; Japanese software developers dont yet know the name or Japanese character of the new era. Which makes it hard to test possible solutions.	Liberal
Fresh off a lie laden60 Minutesinterview, President Donald Trump sat down with the theAssociated Pressto do the same.From oft-repeated false statementslike dismissing his decade long working relationship with personal lawyer Michael Cohenor new ones like his defense of the Saudi government in the killing of Washington PostJamal Khashoggi, the interview was Trumpian in its ability to overwhelm the viewer with falsehoods and tangents.But now, Washington correspondent for theToronto Star Daniel Dale has compiled the wildest moments for examination, and the results are unsettling to say the least.From citing his “natural inclination for science” to refute the vast majority of the scientific community’s stance on global warming:AP to Trump on climate: Scientists say we're getting to a point where it's irreversibleTrump: My uncle was a scientist…and "I didnt talk to him about this particular subject, but I have a natural instinct for science, and I will say that you have scientists on both sides" pic.twitter.com/pMbjlodi0D— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018To dodging the subject on Russia:Trump to AP: "I often hear that Russia likes to sow discord. The word is 'sow,' an old English term."— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018And so much more.AP: Why haven't you visited troops in a combat zone?Trump: "Well, I will do that at some point, but I dont think its overly necessary. Ive been very busy with everything thats taking place here. …Im doing a lot of things. But its something Id do. And do gladly."— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018AP: "Mitch McConnell said he wants to consider entitlement reform."Trump: "Wants to consider what?"AP: "Entitlement reform  changes to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid."Trump: "That I havent heard." pic.twitter.com/vpMgR39uIv— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018This answer comes despite the fact that Senate Majority Leader and Kentucky Republican Mitch McConnell’s comments blaming entitlement programs for the deficit were covered widely in the past few days.The president also appeared to blame California for forest fires in order to defend the widening deficit:AP tells Trump the budget deficit is very big and that he used to criticize Obama about such deficits. Trump says he "had to take care of our military"…and also that there were forest fires…and "California does a horrible job maintaining their forests." pic.twitter.com/W4aeWplXbi— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018And of course, plenty of pure nonsense:Trump with pure nonsense: "Do you know these Russian hackers youre talking about from Moscow? They have nothing to do with me. How many people are they? Only 28 people? They have nothing to do with me. They were hackers from Moscow. Some of them supported Hillary Clinton."— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018Trump has been lying that Biden ran for prez three times, though it was twice. This time, he attributed this to "a lot of people": "Well, Biden ran twice and actually a lot of people think he really ran a third time, but he was so low in the polls that he never registered."— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018One of Trump's most outlandish lies is that the Electoral College is set up in a way that gives Democrats an inherent advantage. This is the 20th time he has said it. pic.twitter.com/eC1y0lyKKw— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 17, 2018The thread has Americans on Twitter deeply concerned and in disbelief.I read your checks and transcripts a lot.  I honestly thought tonight was a parody.  And Im pre-desensitized— Geoffrey Rickly (@GeoffRickly) October 17, 2018Omg. Every single thing he says is a lie.— susan morrow (@sooze555) October 17, 2018Is he hearing impaired or just ignorant?— Sandy H (@SandyH1123) October 17, 2018These quotes dont seem real. Trump is a living parody.— Mary Convertino (@mac9705) October 17, 2018None of the claims listed held water.	Liberal
Earlier this month, Grammy winning singer and songwriter Taylor Swift took to Instagram to endorse Democratic candidates in her home state of Tennessee. While the post earned backlash from conservatives who once considered Swift an icon, voter registrations leapt in the immediate aftermath of her Instagram post.Now Swift is back on Instagram to address voting for the 2018 midterms with her fans and followers. Specifically, Swift hopes to get the word out about early voting.Voters do not need to wait until election day to vote, which Swift stated she wished she knew the first time she voted at age 18. On Instagram she said:“Something I wish I knew about when I was 18 and voting for the first time: ?EARLY VOTING?. It makes it so quick and easy to go and cast your vote before November 6. Early voting starts TODAY in Tennessee and goes to Nov 1 ????”Swift then directs her followers to her bio page where they can check on early voting in their own state through Vote.org where people can also check on the status of their voter registration.  Something I wish I knew about when I was 18 and voting for the first time: ?EARLY VOTING?. It makes it so quick and easy to go and cast your vote before November 6. Early voting starts TODAY in Tennessee and goes to Nov 1 ???? You can check out your states early voting dates at the link in my bioA post shared by  Taylor Swift (@taylorswift) on Oct 17, 2018 at 6:02am PDTThe post earned over 860,000 likes after just 7 hours. People on Twitter noticed her latest efforts to get out the vote as well.Taylor Swift has taken to Instagram again, this time to inform fans of how they can vote early. pic.twitter.com/m1EFdtApHx Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) October 17, 2018Taylor Swift just added a vote early link to her Instagram account. Here it is: https://t.co/ygUqgw79OGVOTE EARLY – make sure your vote is counted! pic.twitter.com/qx8Pwo8pHz Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) October 17, 2018For the most part, feedback ran positive. Except when Fox News shared the story. Although the pushback against Swift got some pushback of its own.#boycottTI #boycotttaylorswift its that simple. If Musicians are willing to marginalize a segment of their listeners its time to marginalize them by NOT PURCHASING their music AT ALL! #REDWAVE #TRUMP2020 David Davila (@DAVIDDAVILASRM) October 17, 2018Why boycott someone for having an opinion. #lame #burnyournikes Der Chef ???? (@agitpropUS) October 17, 2018Cashing that George Soros check!!! Ron Camelot ?? (@RonCamelot) October 17, 2018What’s with you guys and the George Soros obsession? Are you seriously suggesting that Taylor Swift is on his payroll? She is a singer. She’s quite popular actually – check out her earnings. Les Gillon (@LGillon2) October 17, 2018pic.twitter.com/DdgrP8Ed00 Turfline/Trading (@Turfline) October 17, 2018I thought conservatives didnt insult of ridicule? Seems as though I’ve been bamboozled ?? Dino Spamoni (@Trafalgar_Law32) October 17, 2018However outside of the Fox News post, people seemed to appreciate the message and the links to encourage voting, especially by millennials.	Liberal
Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) debated his Democratic opponent Beto O’Rourke Tuesday night and ended up stumbling over what should have been a very easy question to answer.One of the debate moderators asked Cruz to tell voters “something you’ve done in the last year that has nothing to do with politics” so that Texans can form a better “insight to who you are as a person.”Cruz’s response, apart from looking like he was just asked to find the solution to quantum gravity, was six seconds of dead silence and a heavy sigh.The incumbent Republican then said the hardest part about being a Senator “is being a dad,” followed by remarks about how tough it is managing a family while working in Washington.Watch the clip below:We dare you not to cringe as a simple debate question stumped Texas Senator Ted Cruz into six seconds of painful silence. pic.twitter.com/Ca4uNL33b5— HuffPost (@HuffPost) October 17, 2018Needless to say, this didn’t help Cruz’s likeability factor on Twitter. People were pretty amazed that Cruz, himself a sitting Senator and former federal prosecutor, wasn’t able to answer a question about his personal life.https://twitter.com/PaDenys/status/1052560434216165376It was so telling— Kelsey Drake (@kelseyinsilence) October 17, 2018 https://twitter.com/peterb3182/status/1052604460705468417not that deep— hunna (Keke Coutee fan account) (@Hunter_Haynie) October 17, 2018Its honestly pathetic. Unbelievably, I felt for the guy. That said, we have to get him out of the senate. Vote Beto!— Susan Leigh (@SusanBernardi) October 17, 2018Q:  What do Ted Cruz's kids call it when daddy goes away to Washington?A:   Staycation— Dee Peezy (@FUIAMLIBERAL) October 17, 2018Watched it live last night with a few others. A lot of us started laughing and gasping at the same time.— Truthandonlythetruth (@TRUTH22410803) October 17, 2018HAHAHA! Oh, this is perfect. (BTW It would probably help if he had a shred of humanity)— soupcity (@emmbee1002) October 17, 2018Seems the hardest part about Ted Cruz's job is keep his mind on the issues that face Texas. If being a dad is so hard on you to represent Texas then your not the person for the job. Stay home and raise your family.— Maggie12161773 (@maggie12161773) October 17, 2018Cruz has answered other questions with silence in the past – tough questions at that.	Liberal
On Tuesday, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to tout the news of the dismissal of one of the pending lawsuits against him.Stormy Danielsthe woman the President had his former fixer and personal lawyer pay $130,000.00 to just before the 2016 presidential electionsued the President over statements he made regarding her. Daniels had an alleged affair with Trump in 2006 while the President was married to First Lady Melania Trump.Trump tweeted a quote from Fox News on Twitter along with his own comments. He posted:“‘Federal Judge throws out Stormy Danials [sic] lawsuit versus Trump. Trump is entitled to full legal fees.’ @FoxNews Great, now I can go after Horseface and her 3rd rate lawyer in the Great State of Texas. She will confirm the letter she signed! She knows nothing about me, a total con!”Federal Judge throws out Stormy Danials lawsuit versus Trump. Trump is entitled to full legal fees. @FoxNews Great, now I can go after Horseface and her 3rd rate lawyer in the Great State of Texas. She will confirm the letter she signed! She knows nothing about me, a total con! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2018But the dangling participle or misplaced modifier at the end of the President’s last sentence gave people pause…until they began laughing.Daniels herself called out the poorly worded phrase. She also took to Twitter and posted:“I see someone finally made it to chapter 3. Also, can someone please teach Tiny about correct punctuation? We already knew you’re a con, though. #triggeredhim #slowreader #commasarehard”I see someone finally made it to chapter 3. Also, can someone please teach Tiny about correct punctuation? We already knew you’re a con, though. #triggeredhim #slowreader #commasarehard Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) October 16, 2018As the sentence is currently structured, the phrase “a total con” refers to the object of the prepositional phrase: “me”as in President Trump, not the subject of the sentence: “She”as in Stormy Daniels.People online got a kick out of the error.	Liberal
In a further effort to distance himself from the criminal activity performed on his behalf, President Donald Trump dismissed the idea that he and former lawyer Michael Cohen, who recently pled guilty to campaign finance fraud, had a close professional relationship.In an interview with AP, the president insisted that Cohen, who became known during the 2016 campaign as Trump’s “fixer” and made numerous television appearances to vouch for the president, was actually just a “PR person who did small legal work.”Perhaps most stunningly, the president claimed that Cohen’s crimes had nothing to do with him:“Michael Cohen was a PR person who did small legal work, very small legal work.”As Senior Political Reporter for TheWashington PostAaron Blake points out, this is not the case.Trump claims Cohen wasnt in trouble for what he did for me.Not true. Cohen pleaded to a campaign finance violation, which was the Stormy payment. pic.twitter.com/L2IQeqyLQ8— Aaron Blake (@AaronBlake) October 17, 2018In reality, Michael Cohen was Trump’s personal lawyer for over a decade; from before the election of Barack Obama until nearly two years after Trump’s own ascent to the White House. Their closeness often led Cohen to be one of the president’s most vociferous defenders.Cohen even implied once that he’d give his life for Donald Trump.Im the guy who stops the leaks. Im the guy who protects the president and the family. Im the guy who would take a bullet for the president”When Cohen initially landed in hot water for what would ultimately be his downfall, Trump returned the favor.The New York Times and a third rate reporter named Maggie Haberman, known as a Crooked H flunkie who I dont speak to and have nothing to do with, are going out of their way to destroy Michael Cohen and his relationship with me in the hope that he will flip. They use….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018….non-existent sources and a drunk/drugged up loser who hates Michael, a fine person with a wonderful family. Michael is a businessman for his own account/lawyer who I have always liked & respected. Most people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble, even if….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018….it means lying or making up stories. Sorry, I dont see Michael doing that despite the horrible Witch Hunt and the dishonest media!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018Now, Twitter users aren’t about to let Trump forget that he and Cohen were bosom buddies.So all this time referring the free press and the American people to Trump's atty, Michael Cohen, for all the hard answers was a, what, misunderstanding ?  Smh— TLHoffman (@TammyLHoffman1) May 10, 2018Whats next, Trump downplaying his ties to Ivanka— rrat (@RRatkay) May 10, 2018This is hilarious, a laugh a second. Cohen was extremely close to trump and let's not forget Cohen had tapes and who knows what else that's implicated agent orange. Cohen has destroyed trump and kin and it's just a matter of time. pic.twitter.com/9H2sS3hJL0— todd h. (@toddh14977941) October 17, 2018Some are calling out the president’s attempted dismissal of Cohen’s guilty plea, which implicated then-candidate Trump as well.	Liberal
Fox News host Laura Ingraham is using xenophobia to motivate Republicans to vote. On her showThe Ingraham Angle Tuesday night, Ingraham stoked fears over immigration to drive conservative voters to the polls in November.In a fiery rant, Ingraham warned her viewers that “the cause” of protecting the border would be “totally lost” if “open borders” Democrats win control of the U.S. House of Representatives, and that American citizens would be “replaced” with “chain migrants.”Your views on immigrationwill have zero impact and zero influence on a House dominated by Democrats who want to replace you, the American voters, with newly amnestied citizens and an ever-increasing number of chain migrants, Ingraham said.Watch the full clip below:The shifting demographics of the American electorate clearly scares the bejesus out of Ingraham and her fans.They're terrified. They see the writing on the wall. The demographics are changing, and they're not going to be a part of our future. #EndTheGOPhttps://t.co/NQZQCosoQa— Ian Bowen (@idbowen85) October 17, 2018But the idea that citizens will be “replaced” is a new one.Really?! I have four children, all with spouses, six grandchildren and we are a growing family. How is my family going to be replaced by immigrants? My job? They can have it! Republican power has made companies repulsive to their employees. Get a brain @IngrahamAngle. Use it?— Barbara Kehl (@Barbee5775) October 17, 2018New leader of #KKK is @IngrahamAngle Whats wrong with these hate mongers? How your family came to USA?  Fox News host Laura Ingraham is using scare tactics again. https://t.co/8fuIaGne3J via @HuffPost— Fikhan (@Fikhan17) October 17, 2018https://t.co/txruS3CqEhQuestion for @FoxNews or should I say "Faux News"? Why do you have this sh*t on the air? @IngrahamAngle is a #hatesayer not a journalist. This is a crime against humanity and against the U.S.A. WTF is the matter with you?— Kevin O'Brien (@Kevitar) October 17, 2018Ugh. I really hate that @IngrahamAngle, who has such a toxic, fearful, world view, has a platform to influence others. When will people like her return to the darkness from whence they came?https://t.co/qxzCPRNpsX— Shelly (@SheCheRie) October 17, 2018Yup. Fear mongering against non-white immigrants.— Sandra (@TexSandra210) October 17, 2018Some joked that they’d like to replace Ingraham with an immigrant.	Liberal
Washington Post columnistMark Thiessen wrote that President Donald Trump “may be remembered as the most honest president in American history,” but his profile on the president isn’t exactly flattering.That hasn’t stopped Trump from quoting the article, following a pattern of bragging whenever positive articles about him go to print.Trump could be the most honest president in modern history. When you look at the real barometer of presidential truthfulness, which is promise keeping, he is probably the most honest president in American history. Hes done exactly what he said he would do. Marc Thiessen, WPost— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 17, 2018It was George Conway, a noted Trump critic who is also the husband of presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway, who pointed out that in the sentence directly after the one Trump quoted, Thiessen wrote: “Dont get me wrong, Trump lies all the time.”In the second sentence of the same opinion piece, Thiessen also said, Dont get me wrong, Trump lies all the time.https://t.co/FXfVTGIRrK https://t.co/rL1ESYmuKW— George Conway (@gtconway3d) October 17, 2018Thiessen notes, for example, that although Trump claimsthat he enacted the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history,” these reforms were, in fact, theeighth largeston record. And despite Trump’s insistencethat our economy is the strongest its ever been in the history of our country,” its not exactly true. “In part, its a New York thing  everything is the biggest and the best,” Thiessen writes.Many took umbrage with the columnwhich, while not exactly flattering, is rather apologetic in its defense of the president, whom Thiessen admits “takes liberties with the truth” but has nonetheless “compiled a remarkable record of presidential promise,” including “historic increases in defense spending,” and “renegotiating NAFTA and theU.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement.” (“Where Trump has failed to keep promises, such as building the wall or repealing Obamacare, it has not been for a lack of trying,” Thiessen wrote.)This is a joke, right? This is the most dishonest President in history. He lies every time he opens his mouth and as far as keeping his promises, well let's check. Mexico will pay for the wall, lock her up, new health coverage, to name just a few.— America's Flyboys (@amflyboys) October 17, 2018Say this in front of the UN next time, it will get a bigger laugh than your last appearance.— Corinne Pottergeist (@time_sensative) October 17, 2018This tweet of yours is a bit like the @normmacdonald comedy bit, where he makes the case that Tiger Woods is the most faithful husband of all time (when you factor in the number of women he "could have" slept with, but didn't).  #NotMyPresident— Chad Greve (@GreveChad) October 17, 2018https://twitter.com/BrokenSpiritNMB/status/1052570921880285186The Washington Post recently estimated that Trump has made more than 5,000 false or misleading claims since taking office.“Thats an average of 8.3 Trumpian claims a day, but in the past nine days  sinceour last update the president has averaged 32 claims a day,” the paper reported on September 13. The paper also observed that on September 7, Trump “publicly made 125 false or misleading statements  in a period of time that totaled only about 120 minutes. It was a new single-day high.”Trump had once criticized Thiessen. In 2015, he referred to him in a tweet as “a failed Bush speechwriter” and “A third rate talent.”.@marcthiessen is a failed Bush speechwriter whose work was so bad that he has never been able to make a comeback. A third rate talent!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2015	Liberal
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Tuesday traveled to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia to discuss the disappearance of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi with the Saudi royal family.As he prepared to fly to Turkey to discuss the Khashoggi matter with the Turkish president, Pompeo spoke with reporters and accidentally revealed the trueintention of his meeting with the Saudis…or rather what it was not.Pompeo said the Saudis assured him they would conduct a “complete, transparent investigation” into Khashoggi, and that the Saudis “made a commitment to hold anyone connected to any wrongdoing” accountable, including members of the royal family or any “senior officer or official.”When asked if the Saudis knew if Khashoggi is alive or dead, however, Pompeo said:“I don’t want to talk about any of the facts. They didn’t want to either.”Pompeo went on to say that the visit was “incredibly successful in that sense” and that he looks forward to seeing the Saudis’ report.“We received commitments that they would complete this,” Pompeo added, “and we’re counting on them to do that.”Watch the full clip below:Sec. of State Pompeo says Saudi Arabia told him their investigation into the disappearance and alleged killing of Jamal Khashoggi won't spare anyone, including royals.Pompeo told journalists that the kingdom promised a "transparent investigation." https://t.co/FTFT3UrLzG pic.twitter.com/JNXxUYEy80— NBC News (@NBCNews) October 17, 2018Many journalists were appalled at Pompeo’s response because the trip was sold to the public as a fact-finding mission – which clearly was not the case.“The mission of Pompeo’s trip was to find facts,” tweeted Philip Rucker of WaPo.The mission of Pompeos trip was to find facts https://t.co/UM4JIEtSTB— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) October 17, 2018MSNBC’s Chris Hayes said the “entire charade is beyond disgusting.”This entire charade is beyond disgusting. https://t.co/U1UirwSJZo— Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) October 17, 2018Walter Schaub, former director of the Office of Government Ethics, took it one step further by suggesting Pompeo is part of a cover-up.That should have been his mission. His actual mission was to facilitate the cover-up. Mission accomplished.— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) October 17, 2018The public simply isn’t buying Pompeo’s story. Many feel that President Donald Trump and his administration are willfully obfuscating the truth.Then what the hell was he doing there? Privately thanking the Saudis for taking care of one of their enemies?— Hypatia (@Hypatia20) October 17, 2018https://twitter.com/Jalbarron13/status/1052563002787057664He doesnt want to talk about any of the facts?!?!?!?!— Joanne Carducci (@CarducciJoanne) October 17, 2018Well, look, Jo, there are facts, and then there are alternative facts. Who's really to say about anything, really?— Andrew (@AndrewSnarks) October 17, 2018Am I the only one who is starting to think that the Trump administration was in on this?— Mary E. (@MaryWehby) October 17, 2018I don't want to talk about any facts? What a charade and cover up! I thought that was why Pompeo went to Saudi Arabia? To get the facts! LIARS!— JScub (@js26783_joe) October 17, 2018The Trump adminstration is again not acting like an innocent party here.— Geoffrey Sorensen (@GSorensen) October 17, 2018"I don't want to talk about any of the facts" pretty well sums up this administration.— Lynn Jones (@LynnR3dh3ad) October 17, 2018So our Secretary of State doesnt want to talk about the facts of an international scandal? WTF— Deborah Coyote (@DeborahCoyote) October 17, 2018EXCUSE ME!!!!!??????  Why doesn't he just say "I'm part of the coverup"?— Alex (@sweetcorrieb) October 17, 2018People are understandably concerned that the United States’ hands-off approach may actually make things worse.https://twitter.com/PierAsselin/status/1052515709178339330And Putin said he didnt hack our elections.— Amy (@flwrpwr1969) October 17, 2018Skip the investigation….they already strongly deny it— Milan T. Azar (@MilanAzar) October 17, 2018They lie, can't be trusted.— Sam (@SamVietnamvet69) October 17, 2018https://twitter.com/funkylunchbucke/status/1052529733752287233He went so everyone involved can get their stories straight.— LT (@andIwillpersist) October 17, 2018https://twitter.com/smartthumb/status/1052521794895114241https://twitter.com/Edgeoc/status/1052568570062729217The guilty investigate the guilty. What could go wrong??!!— Shantay Taygreeneyes (@STaygreeneyes) October 17, 2018He also said full and complete investigation…just like Kavanaugh.— Estaban Gryphon 5th Column (@GryphonWerks) October 17, 2018Why are we not independently investigating???  It is ludicrous that we would wait for a Saudi investigation as the only validation of events!  Are Trump and Pompeo going to stay blind and deaf to other credible info????— Viviane Woodcock (@VivianeWoodcock) October 17, 2018Khashoggi is believed to have been tortured and killed at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey earlier this month by 15 Saudi nationals wielding a bone saw.Evidencethe Saudis were involved is mounting, but for the Trump administration, it’s business as usual, as the Saudi royals fiercely deny any involvement.	Liberal
During their final debate before early voting in Texas, Democratic Senate candidate Representative Beto O’Rourke invoked the words of President Donald Trump to describe his opponent, Senator Ted Cruz.After Cruz made a reference to O’Rourke’s voting record in the House of Representatives, O’Rourke stated:“This is what you can expect over the course of this debate.Senator Cruz is not going to be honest with you. Hes going to make up positions and votes that Ive never held or have ever taken.”“Hes dishonest. Its why the president called him Lyin Ted, and its why the nickname stuck, because its true.”Cruz snickered throughout the statement from O’Rourke, but Cruz brought up the President numerous times during the debate when he spoke of his own positions on matters. Cruz hopes to convert any support for Trump in Texas into votes for himself.Watch O’Rourke’s comments here.“Senator Cruz is not going to be honest with you…it’s why the president called him ‘Lying Ted’, and it’s why the nickname stuck,” Rep. Beto O’Rourke attacks Texas Sen. Ted Cruz during their final debate before the midterm election in November Tuesday https://t.co/zx11ahFiDT pic.twitter.com/BLMPB1cjPa CBS News (@CBSNews) October 17, 2018Hes dishonest. Its why the President called him Lyin Ted, and its why the nickname stuck. Because its true. – Beto ORourke absolutely destroyed Ted Cruz here. Wow. #TexasDebate pic.twitter.com/wFoxMzX7op Adam Best (@adamcbest) October 17, 2018Later in the debate, O’Rourke asked Cruz whyif he had as close a relationship with Trump as he claimed throughout the debatedid that closeness not translate to benefits for the people of Texas. O’Rourke also invoked the words of the President again, stating Cruz was “all talk and no action” when it came to his support of women and the Me Too movement.Ted Cruz: I think the #MeToo movement has done an incredible amount of good for our country. Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) October 17, 2018Pro-choice fighter @BetoORourke: Saying you respect women and their rights isn’t enough. Your actions speak louder. You have to show up, and @tedcruz is all talk and no action. #TexasDebate #TeamBeto pic.twitter.com/NOUh3MXuN2 NARAL (@NARAL) October 17, 2018Ted Cruz can praise #MeToo and try to frame himself as an advocate, but actions speak louder than words and hes supported Brett Kavanaugh, Donald Trump and Roy Moore. #TexasDebate Adam Best (@adamcbest) October 17, 2018Beto is now unloading on Cruz, saying hes all talk and no action, left TX quickly after becoming senator to run for president, been to all counties in Iowa but not Texas. Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) October 17, 2018President Trump endorsed Cruz earlier this year, with a standard form tweet containing the same talking points as all of his GOP endorsements: tough on crime and the border and supports military, veterans and the 2nd amendment.I will be doing a major rally for Senator Ted Cruz in October. Im picking the biggest stadium in Texas we can find. As you know, Ted has my complete and total Endorsement. His opponent is a disaster for Texas – weak on Second Amendment, Crime, Borders, Military, and Vets! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 31, 2018The formulaic endorsement tweet quickly drew comparisons to the more personalized 34 tweets Trump posted where he mocked “Lyin’ Ted.”Wow, Lyin’ Ted Cruz really went wacko today. Made all sorts of crazy charges. Can’t function under pressure – not very presidential. Sad! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 3, 2016Shows how weak and desperate Lyin’ Ted is when he has to team up with a guy who openly can’t stand him and is only 1 win and 38 losses. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2016 One supporter of O’Rourke even put a Trump tweet on the side of a truck that is making the rounds in Texas.At the @HoustonGalleria on Westheimer Lots of friendly Texans, #TrumpTweetTruck on #MainStreetTexas tour thanks @AntonioArellano https://t.co/uHsoTZeDiV @USALatinx @davidhogg111 #HelloHouston pic.twitter.com/jD3m15wk7L TrumpTweetTruck (@TrumpTweetTruc1) September 30, 2018On Wednesday morning, Trump again endorsed Cruz with the same message except with the new standardardized inclusion GOP wants fewer regulations and lower taxes while Dems want higher taxes and more regulations.Watched the debate last night & Beto ORourke, who wants higher taxes and far more regulations, is not in the same league with Ted Cruz & what the great people of Texas stand for & want. Ted is strong on Crime, Border & 2nd A, loves our Military, Vets, Low Taxes. Beto is a Flake! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 17, 2018The formulaic Trump tweet again drew mockery online with people revisiting some of the more personal, less standardized Twitter posts Trump made about Ted Cruz, including one where the President attacked Cruz’s wife.?? @tedcruz pic.twitter.com/FWutiH3Ibf Mitch Mconnells Goiter (@Botched_GOP) October 17, 2018@tedcruz pic.twitter.com/QzkS7EFf4G Mitch Mconnells Goiter (@Botched_GOP) October 17, 2018lyin’ ted pic.twitter.com/xU5DFSFqmS Colin Jarvis??????????? (@colin_d_jarvis1) October 17, 2018As well as bringing up Cruz’s own statements about the President.	Liberal
President Donald Trump raised eyebrows after comparing allegations that Saudi Arabian officialsauthorized the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi toaccusations of sexual misconduct against Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.Speaking toThe Associated Press, the president said, “I think we have to find out what happened first.Here we go again with, you know, you’re guilty until proven innocent. I don’t like that. We just went through that with Justice Kavanaugh and he was innocent all the way as far as I’m concerned.”The president’s comments were immediately criticized.Apart from confirmation of the grisly details, the whole world knows what the Saudis did to Jamal Khashoggi. Trump continues to take a bone saw to the global reputation of the United States. (Not to mention further debasing the Supreme Court with this Kavanaugh line.) Disgusting. https://t.co/A09FSfh80F— Mark Follman (@markfollman) October 16, 2018I'm sure Brett Kavanaugh is thrilled to hear Trump suggest that he's just as innocent as those homicidal maniacs in Saudi Arabia. Strong messaging.— Tommy Vietor (@TVietor08) October 17, 2018My cringes are cringing. pic.twitter.com/yldIiUMvt4— Charlie Sykes (@SykesCharlie) October 16, 2018Historian Kevin M. Kruse pointed out that Trump’s complaints about “guilty until proven innocent” did not extend to the Central Park Five. In fact, Trump claimed that the Central Park Five, four African American juveniles and one Hispanic juvenile who wereconvicted of a rape and assault they did not commit, were guilty anyway, even though a convicted rapist and murderer already serving a life sentence in prison confessed to the crime and DNA evidence confirmed his guilt.Trump called for the Central Park Five to get the death penalty before they were proven guilty and then — after they had been proven innocent by DNA evidence — STILL insisted they were guilty. I guess they should've bought a floor in Trump Tower, too.https://t.co/DaV0SqtJGW— Kevin M. Kruse (@KevinMKruse) October 16, 2018Reporter Nathan McDermott pointed out that Trump’s lamentations over Saudi Arabia are “hollow considering he maintains the innocence of people who have actually plead guilty to and been convicted of crimes,” as he has in the cases of former national security adviser Michael Flynn and former attorney Michael Cohen.Trump lamenting Saudi Arabia being treated guilty until proven innocent rings a bit hollow considering he maintains the innocence of people who have actually plead guilty to and been convicted of crimes. pic.twitter.com/BShmmThnI5— Nathan McDermott (@natemcdermott) October 16, 2018Khashoggi went missing earlier this month. He is believed to be dead, murdered by Saudi operatives while visiting a Saudi consulate in Turkey. Sources familiar with the case told CNN that Khashoggi’s murder “was organized by a high-ranking officer with the General Intelligence Presidency, Saudi Arabia’s main intelligence service.”The report continues:One of those sources described the officer as close to the inner circle of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. It is unclear whether the crown prince authorized an interrogation, abduction or killing. Several officials CNN spoke with said the mission could not have happened without the direct knowledge of the 33-year-old crown prince, the kingdom’s de facto ruler, who is known by his initials “MBS.”A second source said the officer assembled and sent his own team to interrogate Khashoggi. They suspected Khashoggi of having ties to the kingdom’s arch rival, Qatar, the source said. There has been no evidence to substantiate Khashoggi had such ties.Another source told CNN the mission’s organizer was not transparent about what he told Riyadh, which, the source said, explained why the government had no clear information for days.A Turkish official told the network that Khashoggi’s body was cut into pieces after he was killed two weeks ago.Trump further suggested that Khashoggi could have been murdered by “rogue killers,” and noted that he’d spoken with Saudi King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, both of whom denyany knowledge of Khashoggi’s disappearance.	Liberal
President Donald Trump claimed on Tuesday that he has no financial ties to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia but close analysis proves that this is demonstrably untrue.“For the record, I have no financial interests in Saudi Arabia (or Russia, for that matter),” Trump asserted in a tweet. “Any suggestion that I have is just more FAKE NEWS (of which there is plenty)!”For the record, I have no financial interests in Saudi Arabia (or Russia, for that matter). Any suggestion that I have is just more FAKE NEWS (of which there is plenty)!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2018Even Fox News, which is notorious for being the president’s favorite cable news network, fact-checked Trump’s tweet via their Fox News Research Twitter handle:Trump & Saudi Business:1991: Sold yacht to Saudi Prince2001: Sold 45th floor of Trump World Tower to SaudisJun 2015: I love the Saudis…many in Trump TowerAug 2015: "They buy apartments from me…Spend $40M-$50M"2017: Saudi lobbyists spent $270K at Trump DC hotel— Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) October 16, 2018Let’s assess each of these points.“1991: Sold yacht to Saudi Prince”In 1991, Trump was deeply in debt following a string of bankruptcies of his Atlantic City casinos. He sold his yacht, the Trump Princess, to Saudi PrinceAlwaleed bin Talal, who paid somewhere between $18 and $20 million for the vessel. Trump took a near $10 million loss on the boat, which he had purchased from the Sultan of Brunei in 1989.Bin Talal was part of the same group of investors that bought the Plaza Hotel in New York in 1995 after Trump bankrupted it.“2001: Sold 45th floor of Trump World Tower to Saudis”In 2001, the New York Daily News reported that the Saudi government purchased the 45th floor of Trump World Tower in New York for $4.5 million. Trump would collect an additional $5.7 million in fees between 2001 and 2016.“Jun 2015: ‘I love the Saudis…many in Trump Tower'”Trump uttered these worse during the kickoff of his White House bid in 2015. Earlier that year, Trump said:I make a lot of money from them… they buy all sorts of my stuff. All kinds of toys from Trump. They pay me millions and hundreds of millions.“Aug 2015: ‘They buy apartments from me…Spend $40M-$50M'”“I get along great with all of them; they buy apartments from me,” Trump said at a campaign rally in Mobile, Alabama in 2015. “They spend $40 million, $50 million. Am I supposed to dislike them? I like them very much!”Then-candidate Trump alsoregistered eight businesses in Saudi Arabia in August 2015, mere weeks after launching his White House bid.“2017: Saudi lobbyists spent $270K at Trump DC hotel”The Washington Post reported in May that between October 2016 and March 2017, “Qorvis MSLGroup, a lobbyist for the Saudi government, spent around $270,000 at the hotel during several months lobbying over U.S. terrorism legislation, according to public filings.”The District of Columbia and Maryland are currently suing Trump for violating the emoluments clause of the Constitution, which forbids presidents from accepting gifts fromany King, Prince or foreign state.” The lawsuit states that this should include profits from Trump’s many businesses.Like Fox, the public wasn’t fooled by Trump’s easily-disprovable falsehood either.	Liberal
In honor of National Boss Day, the Trump Organization decided to pay tribute to their defacto heads: Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump.Whether the two men head the organization instead of their father, President Donald Trump remains a matter of debate. The elder Trump vowed to put his companies in a blind trust if elected, but no such arrangement was made public.To celebrate the day, both the Trump Organization Instagram and Twitter accounts shared photos taken in Trump Tower. The Trump Tower account originally shared the images in July captioned:“The next generation of leadership at The Trump Organization: Donald J Trump Jr [and] Eric Trump.”  The next generation of leadership at The @Trump Organization | @DonaldJTrumpJr @EricTrumpA post shared by  Trump Tower (@trumptower) on Jul 3, 2018 at 9:03am PDTThe new posts stated:“Happy #NationalBossDay to our boys, Eric Trump [and] Donald J Trump Jr! #TeamTrump”Happy #NationalBossDay to our boys, @EricTrump @DonaldJTrumpJr! #TeamTrump pic.twitter.com/7eSPCmkpgH The Trump Organization (@Trump) October 16, 2018How are they so bad at standing ??????astrology isnt real ?????? (@sxe_moshwarrior) October 16, 2018Life is too short to wear bad fitting suits. You would think they could do better with all the money they’re stealing from us … Kaycee  Nightfire (@KcNightfire) October 16, 2018The post received a less than friendly reception online.Is this how humans stand? StevetheGuy (@stevenstruhar30) October 16, 2018The look like they’re about to uninvent the microwave Thor Benson (@thor_benson) October 16, 2018HARD PASS I like my bosses not mobbed up or corrupt AF pic.twitter.com/jpypkpMbQs SpicyFiles (@SpicyFiles) October 16, 2018Talk about a losing team… Charles (@revolutionaryaf) October 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/jAqxoHI8dS Mark X. (@markxavierwebe2) October 16, 2018People shared Saturday Night Live clips and other assorted media with the First Sons.Lololololololololololololololololololol pic.twitter.com/d5loxvskcm VOTE November 6th (@TheBabyGuyNYC) October 16, 2018I WISH Eric could see this, but he blocked me just like his daddy did. pic.twitter.com/V2GTv6Kvy2 VOTE November 6th (@TheBabyGuyNYC) October 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/2oxWLFRGof Mark X. (@markxavierwebe2) October 16, 2018Fixxed it pic.twitter.com/FdpCcN1s8T ?? D’Typsy Gypsy ?? (@DGypsy62) October 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/5uPwuS1uuE Mark X. (@markxavierwebe2) October 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/bHY2L5FBQ1 Linda Durkin (@lldurkin) October 16, 2018pic.twitter.com/W5K6REmhxP Ron W (@FIPmyWHIP) October 16, 2018And made more than a few comparisons to other duos…	Liberal
The announcement that President Donald Trump would be campaigning for Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) raised many eyebrows.The two butted heads repeatedly over the course of the 2016 campaign, with Trump even insinuating that Cruz’s wife was ugly. But to assure that the hatchet was buried ahead of a neck-and-neck election between Cruz and Democratic opponent Beto O’Rourke, Trump said he not only intended to stump for Cruz, but to do so in the largest stadium available.I will be doing a major rally for Senator Ted Cruz in October. Im picking the biggest stadium in Texas we can find. As you know, Ted has my complete and total Endorsement. His opponent is a disaster for Texas – weak on Second Amendment, Crime, Borders, Military, and Vets!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 31, 2018It appears now that plans have changed.The October 22nd rally will now be held at Houston’s NRG Arena, which seats 8,000 – only 94,000 fewer seats than the biggest stadium in Texas. Representatives for Trump said that there was no bigger stadium available.Americans can’t stop mocking the downgrade.Having promised the biggest stadium in Texas for his Ted Cruz rally, Trump is instead delivering the third-largest event space in the NRG Park complex.— Matthew Yglesias (@mattyglesias) October 16, 2018The facility serves as the primary horse competition facility for the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo.  So appropriate given the amount of ______________ that will be spewed. pic.twitter.com/supTmnyLVL— An Old Dog (@carpediembud) October 15, 2018https://twitter.com/reba_strickland/status/1052049257425977344?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1052049257425977344&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.huffingtonpost.com%2Fentry%2Fdonald-trump-ted-cruz-biggest-stadim_us_5bc56ecae4b055bc94791848https://twitter.com/WilDonnelly/status/1051991392535412738?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1051991392535412738&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.huffingtonpost.com%2Fentry%2Fdonald-trump-ted-cruz-biggest-stadim_us_5bc56ecae4b055bc94791848Some weren’t buying the Trump team’s explanation.If that little venue in Houston is the biggest stadium Trump could find, he needs to add blindness to those bone spurs already on his list. https://t.co/FoLD9OMh2n— Harold Cook (@HCookAustin) October 16, 2018My take is that they grabbed a small stadium they had a chance of filling and even with that, there'll be plenty of empty seats. #DonaldTrump #TedCruzhttps://t.co/tbJEf5GBY8— Ursula Faw (@ursulafaw56) October 16, 2018The reactions have also called attention to the difference in charisma between Senator Cruz and his opponent Beto O’Rourke.	Liberal
Alumni and faculty atSt. Lawrence University, thealma mater of Sen. Susan Collins, (R-ME), arecalling on university officials torescind an honorary degree awarded to her as punishment for her vote to confirm Associate Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh earlier this month. A letter signed by more than 1,300 alumsstates that they believe Collins’s support for Kavanaugh “is not in line with the core values” of the university.The alums point out that while the honorary degree Collins received in 2017 recognized that she did not support the GOP’s attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act,her support for Kavanaugh shows a “lack the integrity and commitment to justice that we expect from the St. Lawrence body”:“We feel that the Senator lacks the ‘St. Lawrence in Action’ that the Senator drew from her Christian Ethics class and cited in her 2017 address accepting the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. We ask that the University revoke this honorary degree as we find that she is not deserving of it in the face of her recent actions. We ask the university to do this in support of truth and for all of the victims of sexual assault and violence, of which many of her fellow alumni and students have suffered.”The complete letter is below.Dozens of faculty members co-signed aseparate messagewhich states that revoking Collins’s degree would“dismantle rape culture,” which they define as“attitudes and behavior that normalize and condone sexual assault.”“While our campus has come a long way in the years since Senator Collins was a student here to educate the campus population about sexual assault and harassment, and to adjudicate it fairly when it happens, we still have much hard work before us in and outside of the classroom,” the faculty wrote.The faculty members acknowledge that Collins, who graduated in 1975, is one of the organization’s most distinguished alums but noted that “speaking out against her actions is an exceptional act that contains risk, which is exactly why we find it the right action to take.”“It communicates that we find the dismantling of rape culture more important than saving face or avoiding critique that has the potential to threaten relationships with people who wield considerable power,” they added.St. Lawrence released a statement viaRyan P. Deuel, its spokesperson, who said: “Throughout its long history, St. Lawrence University has never rescinded any earned or honorary degree, and it has no intention of doing so in this situation.”Reactions to the movement to revoke Collins’s degree have been decidedly mixed:To revoke an HONORARY Doctorate on Human Letters, awarded after she broke with her party’s attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act? Claiming her vote for BK shows lack of commitment to justice expected from the UnIversity? If it was given in honor that no longer exist, why not Angie Santaella (@msantaella25) October 16, 2018Pull it, she acted dishonorably and to honor the honorary degree platform, make it valid, make it mean something and take it back from someone who does not deserve that honor. She hasnt earned it. Faro (@OhFaro) October 16, 2018Though I disagree with her vote for BK, shes done other things right. Lets have terms limits in Congress thats what we should focus on Marilina S (@marias21570739) October 16, 2018I say no it was given and stands as is. That said, use your VOTE help get rid of her. She has proven she backs old white men and politics over people. We the people don’t trust or want her in there. Paulette Nelson (@Paulettemn) October 16, 2018Kavanaugh was confirmed earlier this month amid controversy over thetime-limited investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations against him. There has beenan enormous amount of pushback the FBIs report has received from politicians and the general public alike in light of the limits placed upon the investigation and the knowledge that the bureau declined to interview the witnesses suggested by the attorneys for Kavanaughs accusers.Kavanaugh’s fate wasin the hands of several undecided senators, including Senator Collins, who in a much-maligned speech on the Senate floor, claimed that she believedDr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who in her testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee last month recalled when Kavanaugh assaulted her at a party when they were both in high school, was assaulted, just not by Kavanaugh, despite Dr. Fords testimony that she could absolutely identify Kavanaugh as the perpetrator. She has since doubled down on her statements.Sen. Susan Collins on Christine Blasey Ford: "I do not believe that Brett Kavanaugh was her assailant. I do believe that she was assaulted. I don't know by whom, and I'm not certain when, but I do not believe he was the assailant" #CNNSOTU https://t.co/t57hFEPmw4 pic.twitter.com/LpQxlGnLIw— CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk) October 7, 2018Collins’s vote to confirm Kavanaugh runs counter to a comment she made during a60 Minutes interview.Collins said that she would never vote for a Supreme Court nominee “who had committed sexual assault or who had lied about sexual assault  that’s not a hard call for me. I would have voted no if I disbelieved Judge Kavanaugh, but given his denials and the lack of evidence that this happened, I just did not think that it was fair to ruin the life of this distinguished judge and his family over allegations that cannot be proven.”	Liberal
In response to repeated racial slurs by President Donald Trump on Twitter and in his rallies and public appearances, Massachusetts Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren took a DNA test to prove her claim of an unnamed, unidentified Native American ancestor in her mother’s family line.On Monday, Warren shared her DNA results and her family story asking Trump to pay the $1 million dollars he said he would donate to charity if she took a DNA test and proved there was a Native American ancestor in her matrilineal genealogy.But rather than admit he was wrong or make the charitable donation, Trump first said he did not care, denied his July statement issuing the challenge and then took to Twitter Tuesday morning to again use the name of Tsenacommacah Algonquian Confederacy woman, Pocahontas, as a racial slur. Native leaders asked the President to stop using Pocahontas’ name in attacks on Warren.It seems the bar shifted from proving Warren had a Native American ancestor, which is what she claimed based on stories from her mother, to having “enough” Native American DNA and tribal enrollment in the Cherokee Nation.Warren mentioned her mother thought the ancestor might be Cherokee, but never claimed tribal affiliation. However after her DNA test reveal, the media sought input from the Cherokee Nation.As sovereign nations, tribes determine their own eligibility criteria for citizens and enrollment. DNA testing is not a factor in tribal citizenship or affiliation.But Trump and his supporters seized on the relatively small amount of Native American DNA in Warren’s results, even though it proves she did have an unidentified Native ancestor as she claimed, and her lack of endorsement for tribal citizenship from the Cherokee Nation as a new opportunity to mock Warren.On Tuesday, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham got in on the attack during an appearance on Fox & Friends. Graham stated:“I’ve been told that my grandmother was part Cherokee Indian. It may all be just talk, but you’re gonna find out in a couple of weeks because I’m gonna take this test.”Graham said he was sure he could “beat Warren.” He added:“I didn’t think about it much, but if she’s less than one tenth of one percent, I think I can beat her.”In his remarks regarding Warren, Graham said he viewed the test as a “reality TV moment” and vowed to reveal his results on Fox & Friends. Graham topped it off with a racist comment about getting $1 million and a casino, as a jab at Native American gaming.“I’m going to take it, but the results are going to be revealed here. This is my Trump moment.”Not content with mocking Warren and the Cherokee Nation, Graham ended his visit with a jab at Persians, or Iranians, as the South Carolina Senator called them. The GOP legislator said:“I’ll probably be Iranian. That’d be, like, terrible.”Watch his remarks here.People failed to appreciate Senator Graham’s comments.	Liberal
Stormy Daniels shot daggers at President Donald Trump Tuesday morning after the president insulted her on Twitter. Daniels even penned a new nickname for Trump, throwing one of his favoritemeans of berating critics back in his face.On Monday, a federal judge in California rejected a defamation lawsuit filed against Trump by Daniels, who claimed the president damaged her character by calling her a liar after Daniels said she was threatened by a manabout an affair she claims to have had with Trump in 2006.Daniels’s tweets were in response to Trump, who took to Twitter Tuesday morning to belittle Daniels over her loss.“Federal Judge throws out Stormy Danials lawsuit versus Trump. Trump is entitled to full legal fees. @FoxNews,” Trump tweeted. “Great, now I can go after Horseface and her 3rd rate lawyer in the Great State of Texas. She will confirm the letter she signed! She knows nothing about me, a total con!”Federal Judge throws out Stormy Danials lawsuit versus Trump. Trump is entitled to full legal fees. @FoxNews Great, now I can go after Horseface and her 3rd rate lawyer in the Great State of Texas. She will confirm the letter she signed! She knows nothing about me, a total con!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2018Trump misspelled Daniels, called her a “Horseface,” and then inadvertently called himself a “con’ in a single tweet.Daniels’ tweets were savage.“Ladies and Gentlemen, may I present your president,” she wrote. “In addition to his…umm…shortcomings, he has demonstrated his incompetence, hatred of women and lack of self-control on Twitter AGAIN! And perhaps a penchant for bestiality.”Then came the new nickname.“Game on, Tiny.”Ladies and Gentlemen,  may I present your president. In addition to his…umm…shortcomings, he has demonstrated his incompetence, hatred of women and lack of self control on Twitter AGAIN! And perhaps a penchant for bestiality. Game on, Tiny. https://t.co/6DpDD5ELtj— Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) October 16, 2018In her next tweet, Daniels knocked “Tiny’s” habitually poor grammar and called him a “con.”I see someone finally made it to chapter 3. Also, can someone please teach Tiny about correct punctuation? We already knew you're a con, though.  #triggeredhim #slowreader #commasarehard— Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) October 16, 2018Social media loved Daniels’ jabs at Trump.this tweet is like chelsea clinton level mastery— m i t h (@ManInTheHoody) October 16, 2018Tbh he thinks grammar is married to his Grandpa …— JimmyT (@ElHenderz) October 16, 2018https://twitter.com/Xoduspbc/status/1052229099626930176Don't stop Stormy. Chance you could show up on tv more now or show up at one of his political speeches! Your beautiful Ms. Clifford.— FormullaD (@formullaD) October 16, 2018You.Are.Amazing.#GameOnTiny— Narrator Tweets (@Narratweetor) October 16, 2018I can just envision the steam coming out his ears and I'm living for it. I love you @StormyDaniels— Sean Gallagher (@SeanGlol) October 16, 2018In her recently released book, Full Disclosure, Daniels talks about her relationship with Trump. She includes a graphic description of Trump’s penis, which Daniels compares to Toad from Mario Kart.He knows he has an unusual penis, Daniels writes. It has a huge mushroom head. Like a toadstool.”She continued:I lay there, annoyed that I was getting f*cked by a guy with Yeti pubes and a dick like the mushroom character in Mario Kart… It may have been the least impressive sex Id ever had, but clearly, he didnt share that opinion.This sparked a relentles trove of mushroom-themed memes on Twitter. pic.twitter.com/w4jjS7OG2J— ealfarmacist (@real_farmacist) October 16, 2018https://twitter.com/DJunttila/status/1052232642769240064 pic.twitter.com/7h82GjXbra— RainbowResistance (@JinxieB73) October 16, 2018Shortcomings? pic.twitter.com/vxXSh0jR1g— Rotten Robbie (@snapshutter) October 16, 2018https://twitter.com/ellenmay65/status/1052237868284895232 pic.twitter.com/tZEfx4CHjX— Pat Bryan (@PatBryanTX2) October 16, 2018Trump wasn’t spared the mushroom jokes, because he’s a fun guy, right?	Liberal
The aim of the Socratic Method is to explore a subject’s true nature through acknowledging one’s own ignorance and seeking knowledge through the continuous asking of questions.And questions were just what people had when first daughter and presidential advisor Ivanka Trump, attributed a quote to the method’s creator, Socrates, tweeting:“The secret of change is to focus all of your energy, not on fighting the old, but on building the new.While Ms. Trump cited famous Greek philosopher Socrates, the quote actually comes fromThe Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book that Changes Lives, a 1980 fictionalized memoir by gymnast Dan Millman. To Ms. Trump’s credit, acharacternamed Socrates – who works as a wise gas station attendant – does give the aforementioned guidance to one of the characters in the book.Twitter users quickly corrected her.Not the actual Socrates pic.twitter.com/SbkKe81AfA— Plutonic Virgo  (@Some_Mexican_Ok) October 16, 2018It's okay that Ivanka misled us. Instead of saying Socrates, not the ancient Greek guy but Socrates a character from "Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book that Changes Lives", by Dan Millman.— Jim (@Jim56931230) October 16, 2018After deleting the original tweet, Ms. Trump reposted it with further clarification.The secret of change is to focus all of your energy, not on fighting the old, but on building the new.-Socrates (note: a fictional character not the philosopher)— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) October 16, 2018But the damage was already done.Confucius say: A woman who steals designs & uses children to manufacture stolen designs is a Trump who has no moral ground to stand on. (not a real quote)Confucius say: Real knowledge is to know the extent of ones ignorance. (real quote)— Jane L. (@JLustwerk) October 16, 2018ok… pic.twitter.com/uXCc3xlWmK—   (@_ashlynn_b) October 16, 2018–Socrates stumbling across this philosophical gem pic.twitter.com/249MYXDoUq— B, (@pwnedlib) October 16, 2018That just made it worse, hon. Delete it.— justagirl (@michelesanto1) October 16, 2018And Twitter users weren’t done yet.	Liberal
U.S Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammedbin Salman on Tuesday amid growing evidence that the Saudis orchestrated the brutal murder of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi.Pompeo traveled to Riyadh at the behest of President Donald Trump to get answers on Khashoggi’s death as Trump tries to salvage a $110 billion arms deal with the Saudis.The United States and Saudi Arabia are “strong and old allies. We face our challenges together — the past, the day oftomorrow,” MBS told reporters after meeting with Pompeo.Sec. of State Mike Pompeo greets Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman before their meeting pic.twitter.com/EU0ueNr9ZD— Axios (@axios) October 16, 2018But the smiley, jovial images coming out of the meeting are sending a message that one man’s life is less valuable than the sale of weapons to a country known for its funding of terrorist activity.Republican strategist and vocal Trump critic Ana Navarro tweeted that the Saudis “just chopped-up a journalist who was a US Permanent Resident. He lived in the US. He worked at a US company. What in the hell is there to smile about? Disgusting.”Hey, @SecPompeo, these people just chopped-up a journalist who was a US Permanent Resident. He lived in the US. He worked at a US company. What in the hell is there to smile about? Disgusting. https://t.co/26dTp8lMl8— Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) October 16, 2018Activist Leah McElrath had a much harsher take on the photo-op.“Pompeo met with MBS in Saudi Arabia today. This photo op was a choice,” she tweeted. “A choice that sends a signal to the world: ‘Assassinate perceived dissidents with impunity. This administration will smile by your side.'”Pompeo met with MBS in Saudi Arabia today.This photo op was a choice.A choice that sends a signal to the world: Assassinate perceived dissidents with impunity. This administration will smile by your side. pic.twitter.com/sE8313t4MO— Vote November 6th (@leahmcelrath) October 16, 2018Washington Post columnist Jennifer Rubin, a colleague of Khashoggi, said that the “suckuppery” to Saudi Arabia was “nauseating.”the suck-uppery is stomach turning— Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) October 16, 2018Trump has boasted that the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia would create hundreds of thousands of American jobs and that it’s better for the world if the Saudis purchase American-made weapons of war, rather than those of China or Russia.Trump has vowed “severe punishment” if the Saudis were directly responsible for Khashoggi’s death but has reaffirmed his commitment to the weapons saleThis is fueling a firestorm of dissent on social media.so is this how we are great … being beholden to a human rights-free absolute monarchy because money— Julie M does not need you to explain it to her (@exurbanmermaid) October 16, 2018Is that like a congratulatory handshake or what????— TX Vote starting Oct 22 (@cjkeller) October 16, 2018Oh look a corrupt Republican in his natural habitat— JLD (@jldoggett1) October 16, 2018So giddy and chummy.   Surprised they didn't have a "bro" secret  handshake worked out between them.  Meeting a MURDERER who is ONLY  admitting to TORTURING Jamal Khashoggi to DEATH by mistake – all smiles  and pats on the back.  Quite the message to send to the world.— Donkey_OT (@Donkey_OT) October 16, 2018What's Pompeo smiling about?— CathyO (@cathyob1) October 16, 2018"I'm very sorry for this disturbance your highness…"— Adam (@Rastafenian1) October 16, 2018Scandalous, this administration not condemning the actions of the Saudis.— Liz (@mommavandam) October 16, 2018Shaking the hands of a murderer while smiling .— Janet Hussey (@HusseyJanet) October 16, 2018What a horror to shake that murderer's hand while the world watches the USA lose it's stature in the world. We have sided with a maniac who had a journalist hacked up with a bone saw. Why are you making light of this meeting, Axios?— Santa Cruz Resists (@SantaCruzMag) October 16, 2018Same disgusting smile as when they were locking up children in cages, voting in a sexual assault judge, banning Muslims, cheating in elections, mocking war heroes, etc etc. This is the Republican Party. Same as the old, but not hiding their hate anymore, actually enjoying it.— Heather Garrison (@Heather3436) October 16, 2018Business as usual is not sitting well with the viewing public.	Liberal
In a July rally in Montana, President Donald Trump challenged Senator Elizabeth Warren to take a DNA test to prove she had a Native American ancestor. Warren stated several times that her mother told her there was an unnamed, unidentified Native ancestor in their family.Warren made no claim of formal tribal or cultural affiliation except to say her mother thought perhaps the ancestor was Cherokee, butlike many in the United States and Canadashe embraced the family lore of an unidentified Native in the family tree. Seizing on any opportunity to mock or discredit his critics, Trump dubbed Warren Pocahontas and repeatedly mocked her claim.In an effort to discredit someone he sees as a potential opponent in the 2020 presidential election, President Trump seized on a Harvard made reference to Senator Elizabeth Warren having a Native American ancestor. Then in July he made a statement about someday challenging Warren to take a DNA test andif she had a Native ancestorpaying $1 million to a charity of her choice.On Monday, Warren released the results of her testing and told Trump to pay up and shut up.By the way, @realDonaldTrump: Remember saying on 7/5 that youd give $1M to a charity of my choice if my DNA showed Native American ancestry? I remember  and here’s the verdict. Please send the check to the National Indigenous Womens Resource Center: https://t.co/I6YQ9hf7Tv pic.twitter.com/J4gBamaeeo Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) October 15, 2018 But when asked about his challenge and her results, Trump initially said “Who cares” and denied his comment about donating to charity. Then on Tuesday morning, Trump took to his favorite form of communicationTwitterto again use Pocahontas as a racial slur.Native leaders asked him to stop using the name of a real person as a racial slur every time he uses it.The President posted:“Pocahontas (the bad version), sometimes referred to as Elizabeth Warren, is getting slammed. She took a bogus DNA test and it showed that she may be 1/1024, far less than the average American. Now Cherokee Nation denies her, DNA test is useless. Even they dont want her. Phony!”Pocahontas (the bad version), sometimes referred to as Elizabeth Warren, is getting slammed. She took a bogus DNA test and it showed that she may be 1/1024, far less than the average American. Now Cherokee Nation denies her, DNA test is useless. Even they dont want her. Phony! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2018The President got several things wrong in his tweet, which given his propensity for false statements is unsurprising. But Jennifer Mendelsohn, founder of Resistance Genealogy, happily corrected him.In a series of tweets, the genealogist laid out the facts for Trump and his supporters repeating his lie on Twitter.I know this is shocking, but this is not true.The amateur geneticists of the right seized on the wrong fraction.Warren’s test actually showed she is 25/7190, or .35% Native, which is twice as much as the average white person, per a 2014 study. https://t.co/FLOXvXKA3n Jennifer Mendelsohn ???? (@CleverTitleTK) October 16, 2018The 1/1024 was the lowball estimate of which ancestor in her tree may have been Native American.But you inherit random amounts of DNA from your ancestors, so that’s not the same as “how Native” her DNA was. The actual amount of Native DNA found was 25 cM, or .35% of the total. Jennifer Mendelsohn ???? (@CleverTitleTK) October 16, 2018Your genealogical tree, the one made up of *all* your ancestors, is not the same as your genetic tree, the one made up of the ancestors you inherited DNA from.The Cherokee nation’s response is a separate issue. But I’m the daughter of a mathematician, so…#facts. Jennifer Mendelsohn ???? (@CleverTitleTK) October 16, 2018Here’s what the *actual* report, from the Stanford population geneticist who’s a Macarthur Genius grant winner said.You can listen to him, or you can listen to a man who can’t compose a coherent sentence.https://t.co/7YynLEP4SY pic.twitter.com/jiixjEVEpt Jennifer Mendelsohn ???? (@CleverTitleTK) October 16, 2018The feedback on Trump’s own post was less than supportive of his latest attempt to mock Warren.	Liberal
Stephen Colbert addressed the latest development in the feud between Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and President Donald Trump after shereleased a DNA test that provides strong evidence she has some Native American ancestry. Warren’s claims to Native American blood had repeatedly been mocked by the president, who nicknamed her “Pocahontas.”“Well, after years of mocking Elizabeth Warren, clearly the president must have had a lot to say about these test results, Colbert said, who noted that the president responded, “Who cares?” to the news.You care! Colbert told the president, recalling the president’sboast that he would donate $1 million to charity if Warren took a DNA test. Youre literally the only person who cares.”TONIGHT: Elizabeth Warren took a DNA test and it might cost Trump $1 million. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/Ai4YRgDFhQ— The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) October 16, 2018Colbert also commented on Trump’s denial that he had offered to donate to charity if Warren could prove her ancestry. “You better read it again,” Trump told reporters.Oh, we dont have to read it, Colbert said. Luckily enough, were going to have somebody read it for us.He then playedthe clip of Trump making that promise last summer.Im going to get one of those little kits and in the middle of the debate, when she proclaims shes of Indian heritage  because her mother said she has high cheekbones, thats her only evidence, Trump said at the time. We will take that little kit, but we have to do it gently, because were in the me too generation, so we have to be very gentle.“I have a feeling she will say no,” Trump said after making his initial offer.Well, Mr. President, she didnt say no, she said yes, Colbert commented. But rumor has it, you dont know the difference.”Colbert is far from the only one to criticize Trump for walking back his $1 million offer.Of course Trump is now backtracking on his $1M offer to Elizabeth Warren & now saying "who cares?" This is how bullies always behave when confronted. This is how this particular bully, fueled by demagoguery & racism & misogyny, always behaves when confronted with facts.— Steven Beschloss (@StevenBeschloss) October 15, 2018I think it physically pains him to tell the truth or do the right thing. There's just no other explanation at this point.https://t.co/zPT6b3txk6— Stephen J. Cloobeck (@sjcloobeck) October 15, 2018#trump has spent the last 3 years mocking Sen Warren's Native American Heritage calling her derogatorily Pocohantas. He said if a DNA test proved it he would give her $1M. She has done it & the DNA proves it. Now trump is saying who cares.. and he never made that promise. Liar!!— Michael (@mterr337) October 15, 2018Will you pay the $1 Million to Elizabeth Warrens charity of choice now after your racist attacks?trump: I NEVER SAID THAT! WHO CARES?! WAH!Also trump:pic.twitter.com/9XeBW4hOAD— Ricky Davila (@TheRickyDavila) October 15, 2018	Liberal
U.S. election systems remain extremely vulnerable to hacking ahead of November’s midterms, NBC News reported on Monday.NBC obtained an assessment issued by the Department of Homeland Security last week that describes an increase in attempts to hack election databases. The department said that the identity of the would-be intruders is not yet known.“We are aware of a growing volume of cyber activity targeting election infrastructure in 2018,” the department’s Cyber Mission Center said in the assessment. “Numerous actors are regularly targeting election infrastructure, likely for different purposes, including to cause disruptive effects, steal sensitive data, and undermine confidence in the election.”The report found that the number of attempted attacks has been increasing since early October, although none have been successful.One such instance, NBC learned from the DHS report, was in Vermont. Hackers tried to breach the voter registration database but cybersecurity defenses were able to stave off any intrusion.Vermont Secretary of State Jim Condos confirmed to NBC that “our defenses are robust, were in place, and did their job.” If a voting system had been compromised, Condos added, the data would have reverted to 24-old backups.“so if it were somehow to be breached, we would just go back 24 hours and reset it. We’d only lose one day’s worth,” Condos said. “And we also have same-day voter registration, which means that no one would be denied on election day.”The intelligence assessment also touched on efforts by Russia and China to influence American voters, which are still of concern to DHS officials.“Russia attempts to spread disinformation with hackers posing as Americans,” NBC found, “while China is engaged in more conventional propaganda efforts.”Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen testified in a Senate hearing last week that China “is exerting unprecedented effort to influence American opinion,” however, those campaigns do not appear to include “attempts to compromise election infrastructure.”Earlier this month, Nielsen said that U.S. intelligence officials “have no indication that a foreign adversary intends to disrupt our election infrastructure,” and that Russian election tampering is not as extensive as it was in 2016.Still, whoever and whatever is trying to break into American election systems are not backing down, and without knowing where the attacks are coming from, many citizens are expressing concern.Fears that President Donald Trump and the Republicans could exploit compromised election systems in order to challenge the results of the midterms are floating through social media.AMERICA CAN'T FIGURE OUT HOW TO SECURE ELECTIONS?WHAT THE HELL ARE WE DOING RUNNING AROUND THE WORLD TELLING OTHER COUNTRIES HOW TO HOLD ONE?REPUB LEADERSHIP  is NON-EXISTENT IN AMERICA TODAY!IIF THIS INTERFERENCE HAD HELPED DEMOCRATS, WE'D ALL HAVE PURPLE FINGERS NOV. 6th!— sandi baise (@sandibaise1) October 15, 2018Trump is still betting on a fat guy in NJ Speaking of…This tweet,  circa 2015, was evidently before @jaredkushner hooked up w/ the the Saudi prince? (A question) #SaudiKillsJamalKhashoggi https://t.co/DwBHO3vFmK— Katy Wilde (@LetsGoWilde) October 15, 2018We need paper ballots. I don't trust anything from this CORRUPT admin— Kassi L (@Mbcl56) October 15, 2018Psssst look in Sarah Palin's back yard.— deborah (@deborahc613) October 15, 2018They already know, and its Russia but doesnt want to admit…DHS Secretary doesnt even accept the intel report by Congress and our intel services that Russia did it to help Trump— Alexized M (@alexizedM) October 15, 2018OMG, Kirstjen Nielsen is in charge of this too?  Toddler prosecutions, and hacking …oh, excuse me, PREVENTING the hacking … of our elections?— The Institute (@TheInstitute5) October 15, 2018So if they dont get the results they like, the results will have been hacked?!— Laurie Powers (@powers_lp) October 15, 2018Bullshit. Theyre doing this to discredit the outcome of coming elections should the Democrats prevail.— Jacqueline Yatko (@YatkoChronicles) October 15, 2018This is due in large part to Trump’s alleged ties to Russia – and Russia holds the public’s main suspicions.	Liberal
Representative Duncan Hunter (R-CA),who was indicted in August on charges of using campaign funds for personal expenses, has come under fireover attacks launched in a letter signed by three retired Marine Corps generals calling his opponent, Ammar Campa-Najjar, a security risk” and which accuses Campa-Najjar of changing his name to hide his family’s connection to terrorism. (Campa-Najjar’s grandfather,Abu (Mohammed) Yousef al-Najjar, was one of the Palestinian terrorists who killed 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Olympics.)Three retired @USMC generals signed their names to a letter saying congressional candidate @ACampaNajjar is a threat to U.S. security. Letter was paid for by campaign of indicted U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter. + pic.twitter.com/0mMyhyxS4p— Kelly Davis (@kellylynndavis) October 15, 2018Then Campa-Najjar fired back: “The truth? Hunter is a security risk,” he wrote.The truth? Hunter is a security risk. Hed fail a FBI background check today.A criminally indicted congressman known for excessive drinking and extramarital affairs is an ideal target for foreign actors.Thats why @SpeakerRyan removed him from the Armed Services Committee. pic.twitter.com/8ii1MqjTPR— Ammar Campa-Najjar (@ACampaNajjar) October 15, 2018In an official campaign press release, Campa-Najjar goes further.Hunter, clearly hurting from his federal indictment for fraud, has sunk to a new low as he attempts to deflect from the federal government charges that he and his wifeillegally used campaign funds to pay personal, fund luxury vacations, pay dentistry bills, and fly their pet rabbit to family vacations. Hunter has been unable to raise money, generate endorsementsor even to get the local republican party headquarters to post his campaign signs as longterm supporters have spurned him after the disclosures ofwire fraud, falsifying records, campaign finance violations against him.Elsewhere, Veterans for Ammar,a group of San Diego veterans, points out that Hunter’s indictment would not allow him to obtain a security clearance:The letter states that Mr. Campa-Najjar is a threat to Americas security. This is absurd. When he worked at the White House and then the U.S. Department of Labor from 2013-2017, Mr. Campa-Najjar held a security clearance, which he received only after an extensive FBI background check. In contrast, because of his criminal indictment alleging numerous counts of corruption, Mr. Hunter would not be able to obtain a security clearance today. So while the FBI has rightfully concluded that Mr. Campa-Najjar poses no threat to American security, Mr. Hunters extensive financial debts, make him a risk of falling prey to foreign influence.Additionally, the letter shamefully alleges that Mr. Campa-Najjar is connected to and responsible for actions taken over 45 years ago by a relative who died almost 20 years before Mr. Campa-Najjar was born. Mr. Campa-Najjar is no more responsible for such actions than Mr. Hunters wife is for the corruption with which Mr. Hunter has been criminally indicted.In the history of California politics, there are, unfortunately, many negative political campaign hits pieces filled with deceptive and misleading information. But Rep. Hunters personal hatred and animosity know no bounds, said campaign spokesman Nick Singer. We call upon responsible members of the Republican leadership to condemn and reprimand Rep. Hunter for this race-baiting, hate-filled piece of propaganda.Mr. Hunters ongoing attacks on me, his wife, and the Justice Department arent just political; theyre pathological. While Hunter has no human sense of personal accountability, voters understand his family is not responsible for his actions, and Im not responsible for my familys actions,” Campa-Najjar said. “And while Duncan Hunter Sr. was once a congressman, voters understand its me and Duncan Jr. on the ballot this time  neither of our fathers are running for congress. Voters will judge us by our own merits, character, and record this election. May the better man win.Many came to the Democrat’s defense:I received this piece of shit letter, too. There aren't enough hours in the day to list all the awful things to say about Duncan Hunter. https://t.co/gubUWVdh9I— DaveCA (@DaveCA) October 15, 2018The fact that Duncan Hunter could find three retired generals to sign this letter is the most frightening thing about it. Like we know Duncan Hunter is a criminal douche, but if youre a young Dem seeing this, and thinking about enlisting, well … https://t.co/rO005YJAQf— The Walgreens Costume Aisle but for Tweets (@PETEKEELEY) October 15, 2018If only the Democrats could be civil, things would be better. Oh what's that over there? An incredibly racist letter paid for by the GOP campaign of Duncan Hunter?This must be the Democrat's fault! @JohnJHarwood https://t.co/wzsQPn0Ff8— Jimminy Crickets! (@DCclone) October 15, 2018Yes, all the shame in the world to Duncan Hunter, but also to the Generals who signed that letter!— Jarred Rose (@JarredPRose) October 15, 2018This isn’t the first time the two men have sparred so publicly.	Liberal
In a starting development fromThe New York Times, leaders from Saudi Arabia are preparing a report announcing that dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi died while in custody of the Saudi government.On October 2, a day before his wedding, Khashoggi was seen on video walking into the Saudi consulate in Istanbul to retrieve a document finalizing the dissolution of his previous marriage. That was the last time he was seen and there is no footage of him leaving the consulate, though–until now–Saudi officials said he had left safely. Many are concerned that he was ordered dead by the Crown PrinceMohammed bin Salman, of whom Khashoggi was an immense critic.After a conversation with Saudi KingSalman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, President Donald Trump suggested that “rogue killers” could be responsible, rather than Saudi officials:“The king firmly denied any knowledge of it. He didn’t really know, maybe – I don’t want to get into his mind but it sounded to me – maybe these could have been rogue killers. Who knows?”This narrative seemed to match the one Saudi leaders planput forth, according to the Times:But he said the royal court would soon put out a narrative that an official within the kingdoms intelligence services  who happened to be a friend of Prince Mohammed  had carried out the killing.The person said Prince Mohammed had approved an interrogation or rendition of Mr. Khashoggi back to Saudi Arabia. But, he said, the Saudi intelligence official was tragically incompetent as he eagerly sought to prove himself in secretive operations.Essentially, Saudi leaders are planning to say that a Saudi official got carried away and murdered Khashoggi in his devotion to Prince Mohammed, or rather the official went rogue.But many Americans are dismissing this as a possibility.Trump's "Rogue Killer" TheoryRogue killer entered secure consulateNo security report or call for help#Khashoggi singled out for attackAfter 2 hour interrogationMore rogues thru security w bone sawNo rogue video coming or goingor it could've been a pink elephant stampede.— George Capen #VeteransResist (@george_capen) October 15, 2018Can @realDonaldTrump explain how rogue killers got inside of a Saudi embassy? Im pretty sure the Saudi embassy has exceptional security. Corrupt Trump Regime https://t.co/vlKRECFFI9— Olga Lautman (@olgaNYC1211) October 15, 2018This is infuriating and embarrassing. Rogue killers are not roaming the Saudi embassy, the fact that Trump is willingly repeating this BS is outrageous. https://t.co/mSInFmN4Va— The Reagan Battalion (@ReaganBattalion) October 15, 2018Maybe "rogue killers" murdered millions of Jews in the Holocaust. Who knows? – Trump, next month.— Steve Silberman (@stevesilberman) October 15, 2018Some are also suspicious at the similarity of the two statements.	Liberal
In a July 2018 analysis of national voter registration records by the University of Virginia Center for Politics, 40 percent of voters registered Democrat, 29 percent Republican, 2 percent other political parties and 28 percent independent.Gone are the days of adherence and loyalty to a single political party. In several states, there are more voters registered as independent than in any political party.That makes courting independent voters critical. And in 2016, many of those independent voters helped President Donald Trump win the electoral college, even if he did lose the popular vote.Seen as not loyal to a single party and a political maverick appealed to many independent voters in 2016. But do those same voters still see Trump in the same light in 2018?CNN New Day correspondent Alisyn Camerota sat down with a group of independent voters Monday to ask. In a group of six people, five were independent and voted for Trump and one had been a lifelong Republican who was now leaving the party to register as an independent because of Trump.None had good things to say about the President. And the five independents who voted for Trump expressed regret over their decision.Camerota asked how one voter felt, to which he responded, “Afraid.” When asked to elaborate, Anthony Miles stated:“Of the dictator in the White House.He has no empathy for anything. He will never admit when he makes a mistake.”Independent Anthony Miles, who voted for Trump, says on @NewDay that he is afraid that we may have a dictator in the White House. John Avlon (@JohnAvlon) October 15, 2018Miles added:“He said the system is rigged and he said he was going to be a new sheriff in town, and all he’s done is surrounded himself with crooks. How many people have been indicted that were in close cahoots with him?”“And there, in front of the world stage, he looks at Putin and puts his arm around him and says this is my buddy.”Watch Miles answer Camerota here.Sydney Cohan, who voted for Trump but now plans to register as a Democrat, stated:“The divisiveness in this country right now and the rhetoric coming from the president is a daily exhausting thing.”“I worry that the dictatorthe wannabe dictator in the White House will make it where we don’t even have any more elections.”“I mean, he willhe is like siding with Vladimir Putin. HeKim Jong Un is now having love letters written to Donald Trump.”Later in the interview, Camerota would ask the New Day panelists if character issues were their biggest concerns regarding the President. The handling of Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination and confirmation affected all of the panelists.A former Republican called it hypocrisy. Watch their remarks here.“I’m mortified every day,” says an independent Trump voter who regrets her vote and is switching her party affiliation to Democrat: “Every day, I’m just speechless. I really am just speechless.” pic.twitter.com/GhsWYooaQd New Day (@NewDay) October 15, 2018Rahul Blokhra, who also voted for Trump, added concerns about who is actually running the United States.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Monday fretted over the news that Sears, once the world’s largest retailer, has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection following years of slumping sales.The president said that Sears holds a special place in the heart of his generation and that its massive downsizing is “such a shame.”“Somebody that is of my generation, Sears Roebuck was a big deal, so it’s very sad to see,” Trump said. “Sears has been dying for many years. It’s been obviously improperly run for many years”President Trump says "it's a shame" that Sears is declaring bankruptcy."Somebody that is of my generation, Sears Roebuck was a big deal, so it's very sad to see … Sears has been dying for many years. It's been obviously improperly run for many years" https://t.co/ejAOHlZGoy pic.twitter.com/iPGcl7U2qA— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 15, 2018For Trump to refer to a corporation as “improperly run” has some people calling foul, however, as his own business history is littered with bankruptcies (six in total) and failing to pay contractors.https://twitter.com/FleaBetty/status/1051842990363303938Trump has a lot of experience about filing for bankruptcy.— Miranda Queen (@MirandinaRajada) October 15, 2018Well if that aint the pot calling the kettle black.— Carolyn Torvik (@carolinarose73) October 15, 2018Yes. Its clear that companies declaring bankruptcy are poorly run.— Robin Bardell (@rbardell) October 15, 2018I reckon he would know what causes bankruptcy— mabel (@mabeldenver) October 15, 2018And if anyone knows about improperly run companies….this guy is it….— Jamie Collins (@jamiecollins11) October 15, 2018And if anyone knows about improperly run companies….this guy is it….— Jamie Collins (@jamiecollins11) October 15, 2018Hes the king of filing bankruptcy, he knows all about running businesses into the ground. pic.twitter.com/ocunXXzh4T— Kimmy (@sunnyme1273) October 15, 2018Which means your businesses which declared bankruptcy were also improperly run. Thank you for finally owning it. #taxreturns— Karen (@kbstang24) October 15, 2018America has been improperly run for almost 2 years.— Hail_Leroy (@leroy_chrome) October 15, 2018I wont deny that trump knows a lot about improperly running things.— Chad Sewich (@ChadSewich) October 15, 2018@realDonaldTrump just like Trump organisation, except they did not cheat and resort to corrupt means of keeping afloat . . .— RKK6618 (@rkk6618) October 15, 2018Improperly run like Trump Casinos, University, Steaks, WH, etc.?— shitholer (@inflated_egos) October 15, 2018Trump didn’t seem too concerned about the thousands of people who will lose their jobs.Just a note that in the past week, Westmoreland Coal, the oldest mining company in the U.S. filed for bankruptcy.  This week it is Sears.  Trump has grown our deficit to almost $1 trillion.  We are about to hit the Trump recession.— Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) October 15, 2018Man.. Kicking them while they are down.. He's so callous to all those about to lose their jobs.— qgirl (@Qgirl50) October 15, 2018https://twitter.com/TimThinksThings/status/1051846650979917825The country is pushing trillion-dollar deficits, which has many nervous about our economic future.	Liberal
Regret is a normal part of human life. Healthy self reflection inevitably leads to the would have, could have should have reviews of prior words and deeds.But not for President Donald Trump according to his responses to questions raised by CBS News correspondent Lesley Stahl in a wide ranging 60 Minutes interview with the President aired Sunday.Stahl asked a question common for most world leaders. Presidents have been answering the question for as long as there have been those around to ask it.Stahl asked:“Is there anything that you wish you hadnt said, anything you wish you hadnt done? Do you have any regrets?”Trump launched into an indictment of the press. Trump stated:“So when I won the presidency, I thoughtthe press treats me terribly. I thought very strongly that, you know, the one great thing will happen is the press will start treating me great.”“Lesley, they treat me worse. They got worse instead of better. Very dishonest.Hoping to clarify her question, Stahl stated:“Is this what you regret?”To which Trump replied:“I regret that the press treats me so badly.”Watch his response here.STAHL: Do you have any regrets about anything over your first nearly 2 years in office?TRUMP: “I regret that the press treats me so badly.” pic.twitter.com/8Nl6pKGyJR Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) October 15, 2018Trump heads an administration mired in a level of controversy not seen in recent memory. High level officials resigned amid scandals involving misuse of taxpayer funds, failed security clearances and investigations into misconduct.Several members of Trump’s campaign team plead guilty or faced indictment while his longtime fixer and personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, plead guilty to several charges that he claims were directed by the President.Tell-all books by or in cooperation with former and current staffers made the bestsellers list.And a member of Trump’s inner circle wrote an OpEd for The New York Times claiming to be a member of the resistance working against Trump.People felt there were many other things Trump could and should regret about his first two years in office.	Liberal
On Monday, the DNA test of a sitting United States Senator made front page news of a major newspaper. Why and how did this happen? It was a response to a series of lies and slurs from President Donald Trump.During his rallies, President Trump likes to play to his supporters by attacking his political rivals, especially those he thinks might challenge him for the presidency in 2020. His attacks often involve the same name calling he employs in his Twitter feed.A favorite Trump target is Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren. The President often refers to the legislator as “Pocahontas” despite repeatedly being asked by Native American leaders to stop using the name of a real person and member of theTsenacommacah Algonquian Confederacy as his version of a racial slur.Warrenlike many in the United States and Canadagrew up with stories of an unnamed Native American ancestor in their family. And like many people, Warren embraced the stories from her childhood while not knowing who the ancestor was or the unnamed ancestor’s tribal identity.There are 566 federally recognized tribes in the United States categorized as “Indian Entities Recognized and Eligible To Receive Services From the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs” with more tribes who fall outside that designation.In attempts to discredit Warren, the right found a Harvard-made reference to Warren’s ancestor. From there, the reference made by Harvard was falsely conflated to include Warren taking Native designated scholarships and jobs based on her one ancestor.These claims are all false, but Trump’s supporters continue to repeat his false statements about Warren’s academic career.I googled for you. She did not gain from claiming her heritage. And so its more palatable, heres a Fox News article that points to the report. https://t.co/AffvriMV1h Paul Boudreau (@boudreau_paul) October 15, 2018Then back in July at a rally in Montana, Trump once again mocked Warren, again calling her Pocahontas. Trump claimed he would challenge Warren to take a DNA test to prove she had a Native ancestor and if she did, he would donate $1 million to a charity of her choice.Senator Warren called Trump’s bluff on Monday when she released results of a DNA test showing she does have an unidentified Native American ancestor. The Massachusetts Senator took to Trump’s favorite form of communication, Twitter, to share the news.By the way, @realDonaldTrump: Remember saying on 7/5 that youd give $1M to a charity of my choice if my DNA showed Native American ancestry? I remember  and here’s the verdict. Please send the check to the National Indigenous Womens Resource Center: https://t.co/I6YQ9hf7Tv pic.twitter.com/J4gBamaeeo Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) October 15, 2018The story also appeared on the front page of The Boston Globe.Warren went on to outline what charity Trump’s check would go to.NIWRC is a nonprofit working to protect Native women from violence. More than half of all Native women have experienced sexual violence, and the majority of violent crimes against Native Americans are perpetrated by non-Natives.Send them your $1M check, @realDonaldTrump. Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) October 15, 2018She also asked about another promise Trump made before the 2016 election, that he release his tax returns if he became President.I took this test and released the results for anyone who cares to see because Ive got nothing to hide. What are YOU hiding, @realDonaldTrump? Release your tax returns  or the Democratic-led House will do it for you soon enough. Tick-tock, Mr President. Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) October 15, 2018However, when asked about his challenge and promise to Warren, Trump denied his statements.Trump just denied he said he would donate $1 million re Warren/DNA test. I didnt say that – you better read it again. Trump had said this in MT: I will give you a million dollars to your favorite charity, paid for by Trump, if you take the test and it shows youre an Indian. Manu Raju (@mkraju) October 15, 2018However, there is video from his July Montana rally.	Liberal
A heartbreaking story uncovered by Sarah Stillman inThe New Yorkerhas brought even more attention and outrage to the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance” policy in regards to illegal immigration. The policy, which resulted in the widespread separation of thousands of families, was supposed to be reversed earlier this year.But for 5-year-old Helen, it wasn’t.In an effort to escape threats of gang violence in their native Honduras, Helen and her grandmother Noehmi traveled a perilous thousands of miles before finally reaching southern Texas. There, the two were separated, with Noehmi being told that Helen’s mother, Jeny, would soon be able to retrieve the child.After connecting with Jeny, Noehmi learned this was not the case. Helen was brought to a shelter where she was given classes and crafts projects, often asking when her grandmother would come to get her. Per the Flores settlement, Helen had a right to a bond hearing before a judge. The hearing would have likely increased her chances at being swiftly released from detention and reunited with her family.But, on a form filled out with assistance from officials, Helen waived her right to a hearing:there is a checked box next to a line that says, I withdraw my previous request for a Flores bond hearing. Beneath that line, the five-year-old signed her name in wobbly letters.Officials took the 5-year-old’s signature as valid, despite likely not comprehending at such a young age what she’d agreed to.Here is a contract, designed for children, with an option to forfeit their rights, that 5-year-old asylum seeker Helen practiced spelling her name on. https://t.co/CTBdfeFVui pic.twitter.com/1Xj39n7RwZ— Sean Lavery (@SeanLavery) October 11, 2018Now, Americans are expressing outrage at actions they view as deceitful and downright cruel.This is literally evil. A 5 year old signed a contract forfeiting her rights and was immediately put in foster care. Perhaps those of us who believe the Bible calls on us to welcome strangers should be especially outraged https://t.co/hnfEvhECeN— Bill McKibben (@billmckibben) October 12, 2018This is just ridiculous and besides being utterly disgusting is in flagrant breach of international law.  On what other country on Earth are 5 yr olds required to sign legal documents, presumably with no legal representation or translators present?— Alan Morse Davies (@AlanMorseDavies) October 12, 2018the ongoing tragedy of this, being done by our govt in our names, is unspeakably evil. All else is secondary.— VoteNov6! (@avanb2) October 12, 2018A 5 year olds contract. And our douche canoe president fiddlefucks with Kanye while his asshat wife talks about bullying.  What are we? Who are we? pic.twitter.com/1JSUh8CTnU— Todd C. Toral (@tctoral) October 14, 2018Many are in sheer disbelief that a contract signed by a five-year-old for whom English is not the first language could ever be presented as legally binding.Were talking about a 5 year old? I was with a 5 year old last weekend who cried for a half hour because she wanted a milk shake and didnt understand the NO part. How can any adult sleep at night giving a contract to a child and getting her to sign it?— Jenelle (@jenelled12) October 12, 2018trump thinks a 5 year can sign a legal contract. Oh wait, he is a 2 year old.The Five-Year-Old Who Was Detained at the Border and Persuaded to Sign Away Her Rights https://t.co/gTCIDiYwUe— Glen Moore (@wyldcdn) October 14, 2018How much more ridiculous can this get? So, now, why cant ANY  5 year old enter into ANY  contract?— Curlyn (@Curlyn13) October 15, 2018As is easy to imagine, the contract resulted in complicating Noehmi’s search for her granddaughter even more.	Liberal
Donald Trump Jr. came under fire Monday morning for attacking Beto O’Rourke, the Texas Democrat looking to unseat Senator Ted Cruz (R) in November, over his name.“Whats authentic about an Irish guy pretending to be Hispanic?” Trump Jr. said in a tweet. “Asking for some friend [sic] Texas.” Junior doesn’t have time for prepositions.Whats authentic about an Irish guy pretending to be Hispanic? Asking for some friends Texas. https://t.co/c30OjHdN8j— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) October 15, 2018The missing ‘no’ got a nod.Wow, you really have no respect for the people that follow you.  A ten year old could correct your tweet.— mrsk (@mrsdianek) October 15, 2018O’Rourke’s full legal name is Robert Francis O’Rourke. Going by Beto is not a ploy to sound Spanish. A fourth-generation Irish-American, “Beto” is the nickname his family gave him as a child to distinguish him from his grandfather, after whom he was named.Meanwhile, Trump Jr. is getting pummelled on Twitter for his endorsement of Canadian-born Cruz, whose first name isn’t Ted – it’s Rafael. And he calls himself Ted for almost the exact same reason O’Rourke goes by Beto: to distinguish himself from his father, Rafael Sr.Junior does not know that it's ok to speak Spanish even if white.  Cruz is Canadian. Haha. The irony.— Coastally WOKE (@Abigail_in_1692) October 15, 2018“Arent you supporting a Canadian guy named Rafael that goes by Ted?” one user wrote. “Idiot.”Arent you supporting a Canadian guy named Rafael that goes by Ted?Idiot.— Angry WH Staffer (@AngrierWHStaff) October 15, 2018https://twitter.com/scouser80/status/1051813321903656960https://twitter.com/al3xandrovich3/status/1051820781582336000https://twitter.com/Jinxy_Minxy/status/1051824078980550658His middle name is Edward. That's where Ted comes from. Ted Kennedy did the same thing. His name was Edward.— COG_Horse (@COG_627) October 15, 2018https://twitter.com/GeoCavanagh/status/1051812835473465344Lets ask that tough as Texas Canadian Cuban guy, Rafael Eduardo Cruz.— villicus valentulus (@VillicusV) October 15, 2018Authentic is a 4th generation Native Texan, born & raised in a city with a dominant Hispanic culture. Children named Robert/Roberto/Albert/Alberto are often GIVEN the nickname Beto. What is inauthentic is a Canadian born Cuban who moves to TX & pretends to be Tough as Texas. pic.twitter.com/wBtpLRLWgs— LDH (@lividdelight) October 15, 2018Before he was president, Donald Trump himself thought Cruz was inauthentic.What's authentic about Ted Cruz? pic.twitter.com/i1thU5ik6h— ThisAngryMamaVotes (@mickeyfoon) October 15, 2018For the record: In the Texas Senate race, a guy born in Canada, who wants to be called Ted even though his real name is Rafael, is trying to score points by noting that his opponent, who was born in El Paso, goes by Beto though his given name is Robert. Got it.— Bob Drummond (@bobdrummond) October 15, 2018Beto is a common nickname in Texas; is this the best Junior can do?He has been called Beto for most of his life.  As a native of Texas, it is VERY common for ANYONE with the name Robert to be called Beto.  Its a TEXAS thing, not a Hispanic thing.  Also, ethnic arguments are sign one of racism.   So, nice job riling up the neo nazi base.— Tony Tellez (@tonytellez) October 15, 2018I have lived in Texas my entire life. I have several friends called 'Beto'. And a few called 'Bobby'. It is not unusual.— Jim Gray (@irvlib) October 15, 2018Junior got nailed for his own authenticity problems too.What's authentic about a "family values" conservative cheating on his wife while he has children at home? Oh, wait, that's the most authentic thing in the world, right? Just ask your mom.— Mulled Whine #BushPants (@OGintheOP) October 15, 2018https://twitter.com/Stefan_BC/status/1051815605420974084Maybe not the best idea to try to claim cultural appropriation while daddy is drawing up more plans to kidnap Hispanic children.— Hoss (@Hoss_Resists) October 15, 2018Whats authentic about a bunch of mobsters pretending to be the First Family?— Gina Bradbury (@screaminggina) October 15, 2018Trump isn’t the presidential family’s original name. It wasDrumpf(yes really).The grandson of a man who literally changed his name because he was so embarrassed of his heritage is talking about authenticity.— patsnsox (@patsnsox123) October 15, 2018Nothing in your family is authentic. Not even love . #glasshouses— Christy (X) (@expatback) October 15, 2018Whats authentic about a lying old washed up reality tv star pretending to be president. Worst president ever. A man baby who cries everyday about something. Always a victim. Poor Donnie. Cant handle opinions that differ from his delusional world. Sad.— Fight for our democracy (@JulieHe84898888) October 15, 2018Whats authentic about a rich uninformed rich kid pretending he understands politics and government policy?— Mister Resister (@paul_bibb) October 15, 2018“You don’t have any friends” became a recurring theme.	Liberal
The latest addition to the White House is a painting called “The Republican Club,” by artist Andy Thomaswhich depicts President Donald Trump hanging out with Republican presidents of the past. The painting shows Trump seated betweenPresidents Eisenhower and Nixon, directly across from Abraham Lincoln. Teddy Roosevelt, Dwight Eisenhower, Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan. Both Bushes are also shown.The painting could be seen in the background of a photo tweeted by60 Minutes, which aired an interview with Trump last night.Now on 60 Minutes: There's less than a month until the mid-term elections. Hear what President Trump has to say about some of the issues that will likely be motivating voters at the ballot. pic.twitter.com/4WYnh3t0hy— 60 Minutes (@60Minutes) October 14, 2018An eagle-eyed Twitter user spotted it and raised the alarm:oh my god, it's hanging in the white house pic.twitter.com/wrq8eo7Bvx— Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) October 15, 2018It is the latest in a seriesby Thomas that depicts past presidents from each party hanging out together. The artwork has been criticized by amateur artists who view it as a tacky, even kitschy addition to the White House decor.They sell these paintings in DC; I have seen versions at a Georgetown kitsch gallery, including the same but of Democratic presidents. Still, amazing Trump can get world-class paintings on loan from federal museums in DC + this is what he picks to display. https://t.co/ogY9J8rPdE— Garance Franke-Ruta (@thegarance) October 15, 2018This stupid painting in the White House is not at all how it would happen.All of them would give Abraham Lincoln the honor of being first to punch trump in the face, then theyd line up for their turns. Except the Bushes. /1 pic.twitter.com/q2gK6iM3bE— David Clarke (@davidclarke76) October 15, 2018The great thing about this painting is they legit have no idea what policies Lincoln and Roosevelt advocated for.And they cut a solid 60 pounds off Trump pic.twitter.com/ysKCVqnZxl— clone (@clonedbefore) October 15, 2018A painting putting trump in context of the mainstream of the Republican Party with all of them laughing is so remarkably on the nose it could pass for a leftist critique. https://t.co/wQGSGD22Bx— An Isaac Butler Reboot (@parabasis) October 15, 2018Disturbing thing #1 – Trump feels he is in a place of honor among all GOP presidents. #2 – Trump was slimmed down#3 – Painting looks like all are cozying up to crook Nixon.#4 – Trumps hands enlarged.#5 – Audacity to include #abrahamlincoln…yet only his back.#6 – narcissism pic.twitter.com/PfgzqWPlHz— Tina Peterson Pirlot (@TinaPirlot) October 15, 2018Trump received the painting as a gift from Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA), whom Trump nominated to head the U.S. Trade and Development Agency, and who is a fan of Thomas’s work. (At one point, Issa even had a portrait of himself commissioned from Thomas.)Hes a really friendly guy and he said, If I get a chance, Im going to show this to Donald, Thomas said.Then Trump saw the painting.He had actually given a [sic] me real gracious call to tell me how much he liked it, Thomas said of Trump. He was very complimentary. He made a comment that hed seen a lot of paintings of himself and he rarely liked them. He added: “You can’t imagine how happy that made me,” noting that he never expected to receive a thank you from the president himself.Responding to criticisms about the painting, Thomas said that while this one is getting a lot of attention because of the60 Minutes interview,his presidential art is bipartisan.I challenge people to look at the paintings and see if they can figure it out, he said, declining to discuss his personal political views.	Liberal
Civil rights groups have teamed up to submit a lawsuit against the state of Georgia for voter suppression.The suit comes in reaction to a policy in Georgia that forbids new voter registrations from being submitted if the submitted information isn’t a precise match to the information in Georgia’s license or social security database.BREAKING: We have just filed a lawsuit against Brian Kemp to end #Georgias exact match law, which has put as many as 53K voter registrations on hold ahead of the #MidtermElections.Joining us in this suit: @CampaignLegal @AAAJ_Atlanta @NAACPGA pic.twitter.com/JxXPAzGMoZ— Lawyers' Committee (@LawyersComm) October 11, 2018As the attorneys allege, even slightly differing information would result in an application being thrown out:Under this exact match protocol, the transposition of a single letter or number, deletion or addition of a hyphen or apostrophe, the accidental entry of an extra character or space, and the use of a familiar name like Tom instead of Thomas will cause a no match result.The Abrams campaign says the blame is with Brian Kemp, with a spokeswoman saying:“As he has done for years, Brian Kemp is maliciously wielding the power of his office to suppress the vote for political gain and silence the voices of thousands of eligible voters — the majority of them people of color,”Scrutiny of the policy has seen a huge uptick during a competitive gubernatorial election in the state between Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brian Kemp and Democratic former Congresswoman Stacy Abrams. As a result of Georgia’s policy, 53,000 voter registrations are stalled, with nearly 70 percent of those voters being African-American. In a race that’s anyone’s game and a candidate who would be the first black female governor of Georgia, the policy would likely be the one negatively affected.Americans are supporting the move:Thank you. How can I donate?— Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) October 11, 2018Please tell us what we can do to help! Please tell us who to call— Leocadia Toth (@Lee_Toth) October 12, 2018Brian Kemps behavior so blatant and unconscionable.  Were all waiting to see what the court decision will be.#VoterSupression #voterpurge— Alinkam (@Alinkam12) October 12, 2018Looks like the party is about to begin in GA.  @BrianKempGA is as corrupt as they get!! GA deserves better! https://t.co/a7abTJoLRXhttps://t.co/ga1OtmcvAF— Madeleine Soloway (@madandart) October 12, 2018The numbers of suppressed votes in an election this close could result in a sway of the entire election.	Liberal
As most of the world now knows, artist Kanye West visited President Donald Trump in the Oval Office on Thursday. The lunch meeting included an almost 10 minute rambling diatribe from West who revealed in August he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder.While West now claims it was a misdiagnosis and he only suffers from sleep deprivation, many thought the rapper and designers behavior resembled a manic episode. Especially after West went to an Apple Store after leaving the White House and climbed on a table to deliver an impromptu “keynote” address.Pundits and the public criticized the Trump administration for exploiting someone who appears to be going through a mental health crisis. Except on Fox News where both West and Trump garnered high praise from conservative hosts.And as is a more and more common theme, Fox News pundits like Sean Hannity portrayed West as the victim of unwarranted liberal or Democrat backlash only because of his conservative views. Laura Ingraham even went so far as to claim no other rapper ever received the feedback West got.But internet sleuths took a look back at other rappers at the White House and their reception over at Fox News from the same hosts praising West. People needed to look no further than President Barack Obama to see the hypocrisy from Hannity, Ingraham and others at Fox News.The Obamas hosted a variety of artists at the White House during their time there, including rap artists.pic.twitter.com/mflfI82IUR A. Finch (@AF_Superdude) October 11, 2018Now This put together a greatest hypocrisy hits video featuring Fox News effusive praise for West, Ingraham’s claim of victimhood and their vitriol for rappers who visited the Obamas.Watch it here.Fox News LOVED Kanye West visiting Trump at the White House. Here’s how they responded when rappers visited Obama pic.twitter.com/ksEFB31ccL NowThis (@nowthisnews) October 12, 2018People were not particularly surprised to hear Laura Ingraham talk out of both sides of her mouth.	Liberal
Americans want Congress to continue investigating allegations of perjury and sexual misconduct against Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, a new ABC News/Washington Post poll has found.More than half of the registered voters polled – 53 percent – would support further inquiries into the new associate justice. Forty-three percent are opposed.Support growseven higher among women, 58 percent of whom said they want Congress to probe Kavanaugh’s past – 37 percent of women said they did not. Men were more evenly divided, with support vs. oppose at 47-49 percent.Additionally, “women are 16 points more apt to back it strongly, 49 vs. 33 percent,” ABC noted.The gender gap is even more apparent among 18-49-year-olds and those aged 50-64.“The gender gap peaks among 18- to 49-year-olds - 70 percent of women in this age group support an investigation, vs. 53 percent of men. That nets to 61 percent support among 18- to 49-year-olds, dropping to 49 percent of Americans age 50-64 and 38 percent of seniors.”The gender gap is also apparent in approval of Kavanaugh being on the Court. Among women, 48 percent say they strongly disapprove of his confirmation, while 28 say they strongly approve. Men are more evenly split, according to the poll.ABC breaks down the numbers in greater detail:“Women who describe themselves as politically independent are 20 points more apt than independent men to disapprove of Kavanaughs confirmation, 61 vs. 41 percent; its similar among women age 18-49 compared with their male counterparts, 64 vs. 45 percent. Additionally, moderate women are 17 points more likely than moderate men to disapprove of the confirmation, 69 vs. 52 percent. There are also slight 8- and 9-point gaps between conservative women and men and liberal women and men.”Respondents also said, by a margin of 50-41 percent, that the Senate Judiciary Committee didn’t do enough background work on Kavanaugh during his nomination proceedings.Here, again, the gender gap is stark. Women oppose both Kavanaugh’s confirmation 58-35 percent and the Committee’s performance 56-38 percent. Men were evenly split.The Kavanaugh effect on the midterms was measured as well.“Registered voters say Kavanaughs confirmation makes them more apt to support Democratic rather than Republican candidates by a 6-point margin, 33-27 percent, with the rest saying it makes no difference.”There are those on Twitter who see these numbers as a direct rebuke of Republican politics.That's because the kavanaugh conformation shows American how crooked republicans and trump government are.— William Bates (@William37313237) October 12, 2018Thank you justice Kennedy for a terrible choice you support, continuing to divide Americans & dilute SCOTUS respectabilty. This too shall not pass with time, only get worse!— Stelio Lardas (@StelioLardas) October 12, 2018A short term win purchased at the expense of everything else. Glad to hear people dont like iron fisted minority rule and are ready to put those who have shown they are unfit to wield power back in the back benches. #VoteBlueNoMatterWho— Safiyah Noor (@SafiyahNoor1) October 12, 2018What are we gonna DO about it? Vote? How quaint…— Nancy Smith (@Nansmith1234) October 12, 2018Wow. Considering he sat there and outright lied to Congress and everyone, that should be a much higher disapproval number.— Carol (@seasquared2) October 12, 2018Don't care.  Vote.  90% voter turnout— #BonelessPizza (@lawrencebagwell) October 12, 2018The #GOP and #SupremeCourt have lost the confidence of the American people.— Jason Harris (@parkingwarrior) October 12, 2018There’s just one small hiccup.	Liberal
Documentary filmmaker, scholar, philanthropist, heiress and activist Abigail Disneythe granddaughter and great niece of Roy Disney and Walt Disney respectivelyfilmed a message for United States taxpayers in response to President Donald Trump and Republican leaders’ claims about the GOP tax cuts.Disney said people should not believe what the Trump administration or GOP say happened with the tax cuts they received. Disney begins her video stating:“Greetings from the 1%.”She then clarifies that her forefathers did create the House of Mouse and shares a “Disney secret” as is her tradition for her videos. But then she makes clear her message is more important than a Disney behind the scenes peek. Disney states:“…we in the 1% got a great Christmas present last year. I don’t know if you remember, it was called a very big tax break.”“I didn’t need it, but the Republicans gave it to me anyway. And I hear if the Republicans do well in these midterms, they want to give me another one; an even bigger one, in fact.”“It’s the darndest thing, isn’t it? I got a tax break, but you didn’t. Hmm…I’m sure that was an oversight.”Disney then adds that many of the rich who received the tax cuts, were not sure what to do with them. So they bought superyachts. Which is a really big yacht. Disney continues:“So anyway, 1%-ers are doing better than they ever have been doing and guess what? You are paying for all of it.”“Remember when Republicans promised if you gave 1%-ers a tax cut, employers would increase your salary and hire more people and the economy would boom and there’d be rainbows and ponies and everything would be awesome?”“In fact, Republicans have made that promise a bunch of times and I’m beginning to wonder when we’re gonna stop falling for that one.”Disney then outlined what promises were made to taxpayers in more detail.Watch Disney’s full remarks here.This Disney heiress is here to tell you exactly what the 1% did with Trumps tax cutsSpoiler: They didnt create more jobs and increase salaries pic.twitter.com/8Ou21x1GMG NowThis (@nowthisnews) October 12, 2018According to statements from GOP leaders, the plan for the 2018 November midterms involved campaigning on the merits of the Trump tax cuts. But polls showed their pet project earned the nickname “GOP tax scam” from a majority of voters.So a necessary strategy shift spawned the new Republican and Trump rallying cry painting the Democrats as an angry violent mob that victimized Brett Kavanaugh and the GOP. But Disney says not to fall for it.The election is not about Dr. Christine Blasey Ford and Brett Kavanaugh. The Trump administration and Republican goal is more tax cuts for the richest and fewer services for the poorest.People online agreed with Disney’s assessment.	Liberal
Pennsylvania Republican gubernatorial candidate Scott Wagner made a violent threat toward incumbentGovernor Tom Wolf (D) in a campaign video posted to FacebookFriday morning.Wagner is hoping to unseat Wolf in the Keystone State, which President Donald Trump narrowly won in 2016.Note the irony of promising to stop on your opponent’s face while decrying “negative ads.”Gov. Wolf, let me tell you, between now and Nov. 6, you better put a catchers mask on your face because Im going to stomp all over your face with golf spikes because Im going to win this for the state of Pennsylvania, Wagner said, and were throwing you out of office because you know what, Im sick and tired of your negative ads.Incidentally, Wagner has poured more than $10 million of his own money into the race, and on Thursday announced that he was “tapped out.” The latest polls have Wolf leading Walker by more than 20 points.Watch the full video below:Nevermind his erratic sports references; Wagner’s bluster comes as Republicans have been playing the victim card in response to Democratic opposition of Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation to the Supreme Court.I'm gonna slide all over your face with these bowling shoes!— Spin-VOTE!!-oza (@azon1ps) October 12, 2018Am I opening a can of worms if I call him a biathlete?— FGPiper (@fgpiper) October 12, 2018FORE!— Roll the Dice (@theRollDdice) October 12, 2018There are too many different sports in this threat. "You better put on your catcher's mask…cause I'm gonna stomp on you with golf spikes…and hit you with a polo stick…so you better have your shinguards on…cause I'm coming at you with a hockey puck. Billiards."— Stefan Sirucek (@sirstefan) October 12, 2018Why would he say golf spikes? They use soft spikes and shoes that look like sneaks … probably Nike too. Havent seen metal spikes in a decade or so lol— Steve From Delco (@sec1968) October 12, 2018Social media isn’t buying the boohooing of negative ad campaigns by Wagner.Democrat: We need to fight to win! GOP Pundits: SHAME ON YOU. Republican: I'm gonna curb stomp my opponent.GOP Pundits: Silence.— Matt McDermott (@mattmfm) October 12, 2018wow not very civil— jordan (@JordanUhl) October 12, 2018this is what people do when they're about 30 points behind in the polls…. I forgot what it's called…..oh yeah.  desperation.— Thomas (((ENDitALREADY))) Long (@ACoupleOkooks) October 12, 2018Haven't you heard? There are no laws when it comes to the GOP anymore— Rich Hartzell (@RichMailbox) October 12, 2018https://twitter.com/PogoChrestman/status/1050789893645971463But beware the "angry mob" on the left, eh? @senatemajldr @realDonaldTrump Your *CANDIDATES* are the ones advocating violence.— Kelley Jean (@Kelebration) October 12, 2018And we Democrats are accused of being violent. @GOP is the party of violence #GrandOldPerverts— Star Valley (@rockbridge2008) October 12, 2018Where are the calls for civility from the @GOP ?— CHARI  (@charito_lee) October 12, 2018He's down 22 points in the last poll.  This is desperation by the guy who won the republican primary by portraying himself as the level headed business oriented candidate who is above the fray— Devon Hill (@DevonHill95) October 12, 2018That is such a Republican threat of violence.  It could only be better if he said he was going to beat him with the bags of money he has taken from the working men and women of PA.— Bill O'Connor (@indybillyo) October 12, 2018One astute observer noted:Threatening someone with golf spikes is the most republican threat ever— Justin Ordway (@ordwayjm) October 12, 2018Yeah it is.Where, then, is the Republican outrage?	Liberal
In a tweet on Friday, President Donald Trump again touted his daughter and advisor Ivanka Trump’s qualifications to replace United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley, who will be leaving her post at the end of this year.For unclear reasons, Ms. Trump’s name arose for the position almost immediately after the announcement of Haley’s resignation, though she insists she does not want the position and the president claims that, despite so-called qualifications, he would be decried for nepotism.So nice, everyone wants Ivanka Trump to be the new United Nations Ambassador. She would be incredible, but I can already hear the chants of Nepotism! We have great people that want the job.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 12, 2018This is at least the second time Donald Trump has indirectly made the suggestion, saying after Haley’s resignation:“I’ve heard a lot of names. I’ve heard Ivanka. How good would Ivanka be? I think Ivanka would be incredible, but it doesn’t mean I’d pick her. Because I’d be accused of nepotism even though I’m not sure there’s anybody more competent in the world.”Trump has remained consistent in his lack of clarity as to just who is suggesting this. In today’s tweet, he said that “everyone” wants Ivanka as UN Ambassador, but Twitter users were quick to point out that that wasn’t the case.If by everyone you mean only you then yes, you are correct— Rogue WH Snr Advisor (@RogueSNRadvisor) October 12, 2018Actually, many many people do NOT want Ivanka to be the UN Ambassador because there are many other people who have worked their entire lives to earn the opportunity to serve our country in that capacity. Shoe designers need not apply.— Anonymous White House Official (@dvorakoelling) October 12, 2018Everyone does not, in fact, want this.— Haley Webb (@thehaleywebb) October 12, 2018No one wants that.Dillusional as hell.Does experience matter anymore??????— Visibility Unlimited (@WilliamFocht5) October 12, 2018"Everyone"?  No really DT, "everyone"?  How about your standard & tired line of  "many many people want…"?  The most shocking thing about you writing "everyone" is – it's a word with more than 5 letters.  Seriously, who's helping you with these bigly words? #oy #manymanypeople— Steve (@Swexler11) October 12, 2018Ivanka herself has shot down the notion.It is an honor to serve in the White House alongside so many great colleagues and I know that the President will nominate a formidable replacement for Ambassador Haley. That replacement will not be me.— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) October 9, 2018In addition to the wild unpopularity of the idea, others clarified that the appointment would receive cries of nepotism because it would, in fact, be nepotism.	Liberal
In 2016, the state of California passed Proposition 64, commonly referred to as the Adult Use of Marijuana Act. The law went into effect two years later, on January 1, 2018. The proposition stated that it is now legal in California “for individuals 21 years of age or older to possess up to 28.5 grams of marijuana and 8 grams of concentrated marijuana for personal consumption.”LAX will permit fliers to bring small amounts of legal marijuana through security in their carry-on bags — but that doesn't mean you can toke up at the airport https://t.co/VZRM86uO6M pic.twitter.com/aFbDHZBoja— CNN (@CNN) October 2, 2018In a new advancement, LAX is now honoring the same regulations established by the new law. Travelers in the airport over the age of 21 will be allowed to pass through the airport with permissible amounts of marijuana.Many people took to Twitter to express their excitement over the policy shift.You can now bring weed thru LAX. The Mile High Club is real. What a time to be alive. pic.twitter.com/PHsoBAIDNs— Rachel Wolfson (@wolfiecomedy) September 26, 2018“The Los Angeles Airport Police Department will allow passengers to travel through LAX with up to 28.5 grams of marijuana and 8 grams of concentrated marijuana,” reads a statement on LAX’s official website, posted in September 2018.The full statement reads as follows:As of January 1, 2018, California law allows for individuals 21 years of age or older to possess up to 28.5 grams of marijuana and 8 grams of concentrated marijuana for personal consumption. With the change in state law, the policy and procedures of the Los Angeles Airport Police Division (APD) regarding marijuana were updated to reflect this change. APD officers, who are California Peace Officers, have no jurisdiction to arrest individuals if they are complying with state law. However, airport guests should be aware that Transportation Security Administration (TSA) screening stations are under federal jurisdiction. Also, passengers should be aware that marijuana laws vary state by state and they are encouraged to check the laws of the states in which they plan to travel.Based on our policy, were not going to arrest you or confiscate marijuana, said Los Angeles Airport Police representative Alicia Hernandez.Despite the change in policy, it is important to note that you can still get arrested for marijuana possession if you are traveling to a state where it is still illegal. Individuals are still subject to local laws, even if they have a valid medical marijuana prescription.Planes are subject to federal aviation and drug laws, meaning that an individual carrying marijuana on a plan can still face fines or penalties, even if the Los Angeles Police decline to press charges.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s bizarre Oval Office meeting with Kanye West has CNN’s Don Lemon worried that the president is not paying attention to the issues facing the nation. On Thursday night, Lemon panned the stunt as a scene that was just plain embarrassing.”Lemon tore into Trump during Thursday’s CNN Tonight, listing major issues that were placed on the president’s back burner as he warbled with West in the White House.Watch the full segment here:A scene that was just plain embarrassing," says @DonLemon.While the President was meeting Kanye, cities were in ruin across the Florida panhandle, the DOW was plummeting for a second straight day, and a diplomatic crisis was unfolding across the globe https://t.co/YfrVr0Xigv pic.twitter.com/4inXjcbQie— CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) October 12, 2018“Priorities, people, priorities.”First, Lemon turned to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Michael, which tore through the Florida panhandle and central Georgia earlier this week as a near category 5 storm. At least 11 people are confirmed dead. Michael was the strongest hurricane to hit the U.S. mainland since Andrew in 1992.“While the president met with Kanye, cities were in ruin across the Florida panhandle,” Lemon said. “Thousands of people” have been left homeless or are in need of aid due to flooding, Lemon said, and he was only getting started.The stock market has been tanking this week too, losing over 1,300 points in two days, despite Trump’s claims that the economy has never been stronger.“While the president met with Kanye, the Dow was plummeting for a second straight day,” Lemon pointed out, “slamming the 401Ks of hardworking people across this country and wiping out most of the good news from the year.”Lemon next turned to the disappearance and likely murder of Washington Post reporterJamal Khashoggi, who vanished in Turkey earlier this month and is believed to have been tortured, killed, and dismembered by Saudi operatives.“While the president met with Kanye, the disappearance of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a resident of this country, remained officially unsolved,” Lemon said. “A U.S. official telling CNN that the working assumption is that Khashoggi was murdered inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul.”Lemon then shared breaking news that Turkish officials have audio and video recordings “that prove a Saudi security team murdered Khashoggi,” a story which The Washington Post broke earlier in the evening.Some of Lemon’s followers on social media agreed that whatever that display was at the White House on Thursday was nothing short of embarrassing.I cant even watch the whole thing, its so cringe worthy— Olivia Jordan (@Jordannhopeblog) October 12, 2018But it was a meeting to stroke his ego and he wasnt going to miss that!— Brooke Maguire (@brookemaguire67) October 12, 2018It was embarrassing— Sally Bradley (@Sunshinebistro1) October 12, 2018I had to stop watching Kanye.  I felt bad bc he didnt realize how it looked, Im embarrassed that he was unaware of how he was coming across to others. Couldnt they have had a private mtg? Smh  #truethought perfect example of when #allpressisntgoodpress— mongeo (@mongeow3bb) October 12, 2018Trumps incessant need for admiration from celebrities, regardless of how minute they are, is embarrassing.  Both CNN and FoxNews carried this tell me how great I am moment as Breaking News with all the devastation of Hurricane Michael, the stock market dive and assassinations!— RonSummers (@RonSummers18) October 12, 2018This was so good— Katie Krogstad (@krogstad_katie) October 12, 2018Does anything happen in the Oval Office that is not embarrassing?— John MacLean (@macjont) October 12, 2018It's obvious that he is a failure when it come to serious matters. The damage is beyond repair for this idiot. A true POTUS would speak word's of wisdom and comfort. He would be a leader not a puppet of entertainment.  I knew it would only take one catastrophic event & he hides.— Paris (@atozhere) October 12, 2018https://twitter.com/Flores1327/status/1050720112376864768Thank you Don as always for putting things in perspective.— Tim Staubitz (@TimStaubitz) October 12, 2018Lemon also blasted Trump for exploiting West, who suffers from bipolar disorder.	Liberal
Kanye West’s rambling meeting with President Donald Trump yesterdayand his off-the-cuff, disjointed statementsleft many people scratching their heads, but his comments on the Second Amendment have already received praise from the NRA.West “couldn’t have said it better,” the NRA said in a message posted to their official Twitter account, a reference to West’s claim thatThe problem is illegal guns. Illegal guns is the problem, not legal guns.”#Kanye couldnt have said it better: Illegal guns are the problem, and we have the right to bear arms. The #NRAs nearly six million members are glad to see a celebrity who gets it, and who is willing to stand with the #2A. @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/RJffxucAM5— NRA (@NRA) October 11, 2018West’s comments were also lauded by Eric Trump. “Good guys (who register, get licensed and own guns legally) are not the issue  Bad guys and criminals are!” he wrote.https://twitter.com/EricTrump/status/1050450558333702145The NRA was criticized, with at least one person pointing out that the organization has not immediately jumped to defend the rights of black citizens to bear arms, most notably when the organization did not immediately defend Philando Castile, who was shot during a traffic stop after telling a police officer he had a firearm he was licensed to carry. The officer shot him as he reached into his pocket for his wallet and identification.But you'd be the last to defend him if a cop shot him while he was pulled over for a traffic stop. Got it.— The Pro-Kavanaugh Team is the Pro-Rape Team (@DavidofSeattle) October 11, 2018https://twitter.com/Brasilmagic/status/1050488047635185664Others pointed out that all of the recent mass shootings in the United States were perpetrated by individuals who had legally registered firearms.So many things wrong here, but lets just START with the fact that all of the recent mass shooting were done with legally registered firearms… AND you are aligning yourself with this disaster??  #desperatetimes #Kanye— Chrissy Hennessey (@fairfield216) October 11, 2018Funny though, the last 5 or 6 mass shootings were carried out with perfectly LEGAL guns. #FactsMatter— Roger Warren  (@MissesThe90s) October 11, 2018Eric Trump, meanwhile, was criticized for endorsing West’s often manic soliloquies.If you gained any insight or knowledge from this pool rambling man you are dumber than I imagined.— Cynthia Elliott (@CbCynth) October 12, 2018So not only do we have to listen to dear old dad and his nonsense but now we have to listen to his bestie Kanye as well?  Ridiculous that he is even meeting with him to discuss policies. The blind leading the blind— MH_Fanta (@FantaMh) October 11, 2018Kanye was on a delusional rant about anything and everything! I dont think you should take any of his words seriously!!!— EC54321 (@EFC2018) October 12, 2018Fox News personality Laura Ingraham wrote an op-ed defending West and slamming “the intolerance of the left.”Sometimes unlikely figures emerge in American history to play important roles, illuminating important truths. And Kanye West in his own eccentric way, has exposed the intolerance of the left. Their denunciations of his White House appearance were immediate and withering. …Westis being subjected to the attacks that await any black conservative who dares to break ranks with the Democratic monolith. Liberals treat these entertainers like pawns who are not allowed to deviate from the leftist groupthink at all. God protect any Hispanic, gay or black who goes his or her own way politically.“I’m not going to say that rapper Kanye West is Thomas Sewell or Clarence Thomas,” she continued. “But I will say that unless he is doing a giant punking of America, he has guts and gusto. Just because he dares to think for himself, to think differently, in his outspoken, over-the-top manner, he is pilloried by the politically correct performers in politics and journalism and of course in the entertainment industry. He represents a danger to the left because of his huge cultural influence. And moments like this, they are absolutely intolerable and frightening to liberals.”West’s comment on the Second Amendment was just the tip of the iceberg, however.	Liberal
In August of 2018, artist and designer Kanye West made several public appearances where he acknowledged his diagnosis with bipolar disorder. But in a rambling, seemingly manic appearance with President Donald Trump in the Oval Office at the White House on Thursday, West walked back his earlier statements claiming he was “misdiagnosed” and only “sleep deprived.”People with firsthand experience with the mental illness are inclined to believe his earlier statement.Especially after where West wentand what West didwhen he was done at the White House.In an Apple Store in Washington DC, West climbed onto a table to give an impromptu and uninvited speech. Patrons of the store witnessing the “keynote” address were left baffled.The clothing and footwear designer drew attention to his revised MAGA hat that he remade to say just “MAG” or “Make America Great.” West stated from his tabletop stage:“It hurts us as people, specifically black people, the idea [of MAGA], because we say, was America ever great for us? So we made an updated hat that said, ‘Make America Great’, and Trump wore the hat so he is open to adjusting and listening.”Several people captured the moment and shared it on Twitter. Being DC, reporters for CNN and Religion News Service lucked into the situation.Caroline Kelly, breaking news reporter for CNN was among the confused crowd wondering why West decided to give a presentation in an Apple Store.I walk into the Georgetown Apple store and out walks Kanye West pic.twitter.com/QKlbOOCDZH Caroline Kelly (@caroline_mkelly) October 11, 2018Kelly captured part of West’s speech on her phone.…It hurts us as people, specifically black people, the idea, because we say, was America ever great for us? So we made a updated hat that said, lmake America great, and Trump wore the hat so he is open to adjusting and listening pic.twitter.com/nKgkDUKtga Caroline Kelly (@caroline_mkelly) October 11, 2018Jack Jenkins, a reporter for Religion News Service, also got to see the “keynote” address, as West referred his speech.Hey Im feet from Kanye in a DC Apple Store apparently. pic.twitter.com/hTZ9eAB7mB Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) October 11, 2018He captured the speech as well.He just asked to give a keynote on top a table.Hes doing it. pic.twitter.com/y30F1bU9aj Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) October 11, 2018Jenkins shared West’s important hat news too…Hes announcing he made a hat for Trump that says made an updated hat that says make America great without the again…and Trump wore it!Shows a picture on his iphone of Trump wearing said hat.Says the again part of the original slogan hurts back people. pic.twitter.com/mt2vO3Sl86 Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) October 11, 2018To clarify my typo-ridden tweet: Hes announcing he made a hat for Trump that says make America great without the again…and Trump wore it! Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) October 11, 2018…and added West’s parting words.He just left, saying hes going to Africa. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) October 11, 2018Apple Store employees wouldnt comment on why Kanye was there, except one under his breath.Me: Why was Kanye here?Him: Man, I think just being extra. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) October 11, 2018People were concerned for West’s mental state after his visit to the Oval Office and accused Trump of exploiting a person experiencing a manic episode.	Liberal
In an interview with CNN, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Democrats are to blame for the ballooningdeficit, which is expected to hit $1 trillion when official numbers are released next week, and placed specific blame on spending increases on health and education in exchange for military budget increases as part of a massive spending package President Donald Trump signed in September 2017 to avert a government shutdown.“People are going to want to say the deficit is because of the tax cuts. That’s not the real story,” he said.“The real story is we made a significant investment in the military which is very, very important, and to get that done we had to increase non-military spending.”“If we could have approved that with 51 votes instead of 60 votes, we would not have spent as much money on non-military spending and the budget deficit would have been considerably smaller,” he added.Although Mnuchin declined to commenton details of the coming deficit numbers, he insisted: “We’re on our way on growth, the tax bill will pay for itself and provide additional revenue.”Mnuchin was perhaps the biggest proponent of the much-criticizedGOP tax cuts, which have cost the Treasury Department billions in revenue, and many objected to his version of events.I think it is Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin's tax bill that is to blame for deficits. President Trump co-owns it but isn't smart enough to author any of it.  Only has to find where to sign it.  You own it.— Old Coastie (@SemperParatus68) October 12, 2018Of course he does. And when the recession comes, with high interest rates caused by massive deficits, they will also find someone to blame. Maybe the Democrats, maybe a smaller group they can incite against. Then Mnuchin may have second thoughts— Frida Ghitis (@FridaGhitis) October 12, 2018This little tactic of blaming Democrats for what Republicans are doing got old a long time ago.  https://t.co/1OHHIHU8sx— Michelle (@Michell82968785) October 11, 2018@stevenmnuchin1 Certainly you understand that when you juice an already strong economy with huge tax cuts and enormous deficit spending you will get creeping interest rates, Fed tightening, etc. Don't blame this on the Fed. GOP owns this.  https://t.co/08Ok7PbpfO— Joel (@jkbedolsky) October 12, 2018So apparently the deficit is the Dems fault for insisting health care and education were properly funded and not bc of the Trumps and the @GOPs massive tax breaks for the rich and corporations https://t.co/v4oTT9aKIx— Tell It Like It Is! (@Jeres_Rant) October 11, 2018Blaming Democrats for the tax plan is not a new talking point. President Trump himself has often blamed Democrats even though the Republican Party has control of Congress. He once claimed that the only people who dont care for the tax proposal are those who dont understand it and the Obstructionist Democrats.”The only people who dont like the Tax Cut Bill are the people that dont understand it or the Obstructionist Democrats that know how really good it is and do not want the credit and success to go to the Republicans!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2017The president’s comment came on the heels of aQuinnipiac University pollwhich found that53 percent of U.S. voters disapproved of the Republican tax plan. That poll found that 64 percent of Americans believed that the plan, if passed,would benefit only the nations wealthiest citizens,while only 24 percent think the middle class would benefit. Just5 percent believe the plan would benefit those in the lowest income bracket.	Liberal
After Taylor Swift expressed support for Democratic candidates in Tennessee and angered conservatives, people reflected how fortunes changed over time. At one point, alt-right websites and social media circles held up Swift as their ideal woman.But no longer.In contrast, Kanye West once angered conservatives by criticizing President George W. Bush in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Now West is the darling of conservatives.After West’s off the rails meeting with President Donald Trump in the Oval Office Thursday, held in front of the media, another intersection of the two artists has been resurrected. It involves a third United States President and the word “jackass.”Watch the video clip from here.Obama on Kanye and Taylor Swift holds up okay … pic.twitter.com/1LrnrO1Ltk Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) October 11, 2018Musician and writer Mikel Jollett gave a little more backstory when he shared a longer version of the clip.Never forget.My President was right about Kanye. pic.twitter.com/z1kbHs2Aar Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) October 11, 2018For those of you asking if this moment is edited, its not.This is real.https://t.co/KbVeRMnefa Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) October 11, 2018Back in 2009, after West went on stage to interrupt Swift’s acceptance of the MTV Video Music Awards trophy for Best Female Video President Barack Obama called West a “jackass” during a break in a CNBC interview.Someone leaked the footage, but Obama stood behind it. He stated:“Although I like Kanye. Hes a Chicago guy. Smart. Hes very talented… He is a jackass. But hes talented.”People online speculated if West’s embracing of Trump was revenge for the “jackass” comment.So is this what happened to Kanye and Trump? After Obama criticized them, they lost their minds, and now they are seeking solace in each other’s arms? Jesse W. Mosier (@jwmosier) October 11, 2018pic.twitter.com/x2MxjZmIF5 SalimKA ??????? (@_k_s_a_0) October 11, 2018Kayne likes Trump, because like him, he was called out by a far better man. Robert Swartz (@RobtNS) October 11, 2018I bet this is why Kanye is walking around with that stupid hat. His feelings were hurt! I knew it had nothing to do with politics! kathy elder (@ke3024) October 11, 2018Honestly, this probably why Kanye mad at Obama pops (@unhombreg) October 11, 2018Others thought Obama nailed it with his assessment.pic.twitter.com/OVTCZeQMFS Kevin (@kevin_cracknell) October 11, 2018This vid clip has aged very well! ?? KathyB ?? (@Katheri57555686) October 11, 2018Respect ??? pic.twitter.com/gig9bIgztR mimi ajayi (@MimiAjayi) October 11, 2018More than holds up! ?? longislandtonv (@longislandtonv) October 11, 2018My president emmalu (@emmalu) October 11, 2018Totally Mr. President, totally. Maria Edwards (@1mtheresa) October 11, 2018Always got it spot on… #TheSaneWorldWeLost DTagg64 (@DTagg64) October 11, 2018Nailed it Jackson (@GretzBGuilty) October 11, 2018pic.twitter.com/26POJLCUlR hugh_the_man (@subtilia) October 11, 2018My President is awesome. And a very wise man. I love Obama. impeachSpanky (@EricaHill84) October 11, 2018pic.twitter.com/fE2o3fhd8l Aline (@ph0sph0rescent) October 11, 2018pic.twitter.com/cZe25mINmt Caprice Abby Normal Conley ?? (@CapriceFilms) October 11, 2018pic.twitter.com/2wjl3q1Woc Laura Reuter (@HeyLauraReuter) October 11, 2018People found the whole situation absurd.	Liberal
President Donald Trump accusedHillary Clinton of colluding with Russia to sway the 2016 election during a rally in Erie, Pennsylvania Wednesday night.“There was collusion between Hillary, the Democrats and Russia,” Trump said. “There was a lot of collusion with them and Russia and lots of other people.”Trump, of course, presented no evidence to support this, because he doesn’t have any.Clinton fired back at Trump with a savage tweet Thursday afternoon.“Seriously, you asked Russia to hack me on national television.”Seriously, you asked Russia to hack me on national television. https://t.co/YPktJyQ7Gx— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 11, 2018Clinton’s tweet spread like wildfire.She’s free to say what she wants and people love it.I love that youve run out of fucks to give— Roland Scahill (@rolandscahill) October 11, 2018LOL!  Thank you for finally saying it!  People are waiting for Robert Mueller to present the evidence.  The evidence is right there in the public domain.  He asked Russia to conspire with him on public tv!— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) October 11, 2018 pic.twitter.com/l1flalmnkz— Htygrett1  (@Htygrett1) October 11, 2018Thanks for telling it like it is. This has to be one of my favorite tweets of all time.— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) October 11, 2018Drag him sis— Glenn Closes Spotify (@popLOCKEdropit) October 11, 2018Thank you for continuing to fight Madame Secretary.— Portia  McGonagal (@PortiaMcGonagal) October 11, 2018get him — Danny Hastings (@dunisayno) October 11, 2018FAVORITE TWEET EVER!!!! — Elle York (@ElleYork2) October 11, 2018Go innnnnnnnn.— Millennial Democrats (@Millennial_Dems) October 11, 2018 pic.twitter.com/ZcwqNqqmZd— ealfarmacist (@real_farmacist) October 11, 2018 pic.twitter.com/qvS0OJhTN4— Jamie O'Grady (@JamieOGrady) October 11, 2018 pic.twitter.com/9yNrgvWnGi— Riley (@riley___riley) October 11, 2018I'm so, so happy to see you fighting with the gloves off. Get him. #StillWithHer— Katie Kelley (@Kathryn75352040) October 11, 2018MIC DROP!!!! pic.twitter.com/cCg16FGFj2— Matt (Taylor Swift Fan Acct) (@MattM0720) October 11, 2018A couple people suggested Clinton sue Trump for defamation, and she could actually have a case.	Liberal
Video of artist Kanye West’s Oval Office meeting with President Donald Trump began to make the rounds on social media and on cable news programs Thursday afternoon. While many found the footage entertaining, not everyone is laughing.CNN host, conservative political commentator and writer S.E. Cupp is one of those people.While she agreed that some of the statements made by West were funny, she raised questions about mental illness and exploitation. In a discussion with fellow CNN personnel, Cupp stated:“All jokes aside, I thought that was really… sad.I think you had there a man who’s clearly not okay, and a President who’s willing to exploit that.”“And worse, to exploit that under the auspices of race relations and Black communities, joblessness, mental health…all the things that ended up in this bucket of issues that were sort of addressed in this free for all. I don’t know that any of them were very well served by this circus.”Watch her remarks here.Sad. @SECupp said it best about the Kanye-Trump meeting: “That was really sad. I think you had there a man who’s clearly not okay, and a president who’s willing to who’s willing to exploit that.” pic.twitter.com/JuadQFMxkH Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) October 11, 2018Cupp is not alone in her criticisms or concerns.Take your medication Kayne West. Your speech is very rapid, your ramblings are incoherent, your profanity is unnecessary and shows poor judgement. @KimKardashian Mental Illness is hereditary, watch your children. #Bipolar #Manic #MentalHealthAwareness Buttercup (@TinyButtercup27) October 11, 2018If Kanye West is having a manic episode in the Oval Office, its not appropriate to make fun of him and the language he is using. Mental health is not a joke and we should have compassion for any human being who is in troubleno matter his or her politics. Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) October 11, 2018Kanye West said Trump made him feel like Superman. no Kanye, that’s your bipolar disorder. “Bipolar disorder is an affective disorder, or mood disorder, defined by manic or hypomanic episodes (changes from one’s normal mood accompanied by high energy states)” –WebMD.com melinda hill (@melindahill) October 11, 2018I wish Kanye west wouldnt encourage bipolar disorder unmedicated as normal. Do you all know what if feels like not to enjoy a mood? Am I really happy or manic? Scared to be sad because you might kill yourself? No? It SUCKS #mentalhealth #bipolar Kelsey (@drunken_dayze) October 7, 2018Kanye West is unmedicated and visibly manic. Its really inappropriate to and irresponsible to be giving him this platform at this time. He is mentally unwell. Erin (@erinkatherine13) October 11, 2018I am someone who has been very open about being bipolar, and I recognize it in other people. The rant that Kanye West made in the Oval Office was clearly manic. He really needs to be on his meds. Kevin Salisbury (@kevinknight66) October 11, 2018What I saw was a sad mess – it was like Mental Illness Awareness Week and Infrastructure Week had a baby. Clayton B. Shaw ???????? (@clayton_b_shaw) October 11, 2018Although not everyone cut West any slack when they acknowledged he might be having a manic episode.	Liberal
President Donald Trump met with Kanye West at the White House on Thursday in what has become a gift basketof memes and strange moments.I bet you never thought “The Daily Show set Kanye West’s comments to Donald Trump about the 13th Amendment to theCurb Your Enthusiasm theme” would be a sentence, but here we are.Let’s start with West’s theory of the multiverse and how it relates to criminal justice reform in Chicago because apparently, that’s a thing.“Theres infinite amounts ofuniverseand theres alternateuniverse, so its very importantfor me to get Hoover out becausein an alternate universe, I amhim and I have to go and get himfree.Because he was doing positiveinside Chicago just like Immoving back to Chicago, and itsnot just about, you know,getting on stage and being anentertainer and having amonolithic voice thats forcedto be a specific party.From mounting an attack on welfare:Welfare is the reason why a lot of black people end up being Democrat, first of all, its a limit on the amount of jobs, so the fathers lose the jobs and they say well give you more money for having more kids.…to his explanation of why he wears a MAGA hat:I think its the bravery… they tried to scare me to not wear this hat. My dad and my mom separated so there was not a lot of male energy in my home, and also Im married to a family where, you know, theres not a lot of male energy. Its beautiful though.…to sounding like Trump getting his facts wrong about Adidas (Slate noted that Adidas did not lose money in 2014 or 2015.):“You gave me the heart to go to Adidas, because when I went in in 2015, we were a $14 billion company losing $2 billion a year, now we have a $38 billion market cap, its called the Yeezy Effect.West’s visit to the White House was one for the books.The Daily Show’sTrevor Noahperfectly immortalized the bizarre meeting by setting one of West’s lines – this time about the evils of the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery – to the theme music ofCurb Your Enthusiasm, culminating with credits that read: “Executive Producer Vladimir Putin.”Here’s what West said in the Oval Office, again speaking exactly like Trump: “The four gentlemen that wrote the 13th Amendment… and the way the Universe works is perfect. We don’t have 13 floors do we?”Trump’s smile at the end is equally as vexing as West’s comment. It’s like a mix of “not bad eh” and “I shouldn’t be here. None of us should be here.”Watch the clip below:Had to do it to em pic.twitter.com/tp94fV6Zuy— The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) October 11, 2018To wit, Trump didlavish some praise onto his guest.We need a little laughter in these uncertain times.So Kanye wants to allow slavery because he doesnt like the number 13?— Frannie (@fvmcgillicuddy) October 11, 2018Last week, theCurb music was spliced to footage of Trump ascending a staircase onto Air Force One with toilet paper stuck to his shoe.Trump boarding Air Force One with toilet paper stuck on his shoe is better with Curb music. pic.twitter.com/T8XjMov8LY— Joshua Longmore (@JBLongmore) October 5, 2018So what does social media think of today’s spectacle?	Liberal
Nothing dampens a couples sex life like a new baby. As if sleep deprivation, lack of relaxation time, and stress werent enough, many new mothers endure a variety of physical woes associated with breastfeeding and recovery. For some new moms, these aches and pains are profoundly, unnecessarily, worse. Women are beginning to speak upagainst their doctors. Others are suing them.For generations, a procedure called the husband stitch, also known as the crown stitch, has been performed on new mothers as part of routine post-childbirth medical care. When a womans vaginaand sometimes perineal area including the rectumtears or is cut open to extract the baby during birth, her tissues are typically sewn back together. Tears requiring repair occur in 44 to 77 percent of all births. But some doctors add an extra stitch to tighten the vaginal opening and purportedly enhance the mans pleasure. Occasionally, while Im in the process of post-delivery vaginal reconstruction,the significant other will comment on the condition of the vagina and request that I throw in an extra stitch for him, says obstetrician Heather Rupe.However, the degree of tightness is not due to the size of the vaginal opening, but to the health of the muscles in the pelvic region. Adding unnecessary tension to the skin at the vaginal opening is not going to improve anyones sexual satisfaction  its only going to cause the woman pain, says Rupe. Note to new dads: If sex is painful, shes not going to want to have it.My husband has been worried about me and fearful of hurting me. He would never have asked for this, says Angela Sanford, a South Carolina woman who experienced years of excruciating pain during sex after she received a husband stitch after giving birth to her first child in 2008. At a routine pap smear years later, her physician explained why.He gave you what some people call a husband stitch, Sanford recalled the midwife telling her. I couldnt connect in my mind why it would be called that. My midwife said, They think that some men find it more pleasurable.The procedure is not part of medical training nor discussed in medical literature (although it has made its way into literature), says Stephanie Tillman, CNM, a certified nurse midwife at the University of Illinois at Chicago and blogger atThe Feminist Midwife. The fact that there is even a practice called the husband stitch is a perfect example of the intersection of the objectification of womens bodies and healthcare. As much as we try to remove the sexualization of women from appropriate obstetric care, of course the patriarchy is going to find its way in there, she says.The procedure is given without the womans consent or even knowledge, although some women recall it being discussed between a doctor and new father. Stitching occurs immediately post birth, when many women are flooded with the hormone oxytocin or in a state of shock from a traumatic birth experience. Either way, their emotional state renders them detached from their physical being. In the moment, I wouldnt have used the word violated because my brain just couldnt process violation at the time. Now that Ive had time to process, I have a clearer sense of what I went through and what was done to me  the injustice, to wound me in my privates, at a time when I was most vulnerable, says Sara Harkens, whose doctor told her husband, Yeah, lets go ahead and add in another stitch so we can make sure this is nice and tight, moments after shed given birth to her daughter in 2006. She has suffered years of pain and sexual dysfunction as a result. I was so out of it physically, emotionally, and mentally. The doctor said it to him. Not to me I was just lying there like a lump.Women around the globe are outraged.WTAF! #husbandstitch have you heard of this happening? How is this ethical or even possible without a womans consent? https://t.co/docTvb3h71— Sarah Gallagher (@SarahLibrarina) January 30, 2018Same here. Youre not much more vulnerable than post birth, exhausted after 36hrs, with your legs up, haemorrhaging and waiting to be stitched. The last thing you should be worrying about is possibly being adjusted for the pleasure of someone else.— Sarah Gallagher (@SarahLibrarina) January 30, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump thinks Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA) – the chair of the House Intelligence Committee – should be awarded the Medal of Honor for his work trying to thwart the Russia investigation.Trump made his remarks on Thursday during an appearance onFox & Friends, his favorite cable news show.“If this turns out as everyone thinks it will,” Trump said of the probe, “Devin Nunes should get the Medal of Honor.” The award is normally reserved for members of the armed forces who displayed exemplary service.Later in the broadcast, Trump suggested that Nunes could receive the Medal of Freedom, the country’s highest civilian honor.“Maybe we’ll call it the Medal of Freedom because we actually give them, the high awards for civilians,” Trump said. This, of course, was not Trump’s original idea. In August, Fox News host Sean Hannity saidNunes “frankly deserves the Medal of Freedom for really showing, sadly, the biggest abuse of power corruption scandal.”Nunes has never served in the military.Trump’s comments did not go over well with a certain Senator who happens to be an Iraq War veteran.Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) blasted the president for insulting “real Medal of Honor recipients” with “fake hyperbolic rantings.”I dont care who you are. Never insult real Medal of Honor recipients with your fake hyperbolic rantings. https://t.co/vu1SVgivfu— Tammy Duckworth (@SenDuckworth) October 11, 2018In a subsequent tweet, Duckworth introduced Trump to “Mike Novosel, a real MOH recipient who I was honored to call my friend.”Novosel was a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force Reserve and chief warrant officer in the Army who served during World War II, the Korean War, and in Vietnam. He was awarded the Medal of Honor in 1971 by President Richard Nixon.“He lies at rest in ARLINGTONs sacred grounds,” Duckworth wrote. “His headstone reads simply A good Soldier.”This is Mike Novosel, a real MOH recipient who I was honored to call my friend. He lies at rest in ARLINGTONs sacred grounds. His headstone reads simply A good Soldier. https://t.co/eMsCIrQvqw— Tammy Duckworth (@SenDuckworth) October 11, 2018Exasperated Twitter followers rallied behind Duckworth and her takedown of the president.Thank you for standing up to him and thank you for your service!— TX LIB (@Liberal_TX) October 11, 2018https://twitter.com/17DISH/status/1050403512553738241https://twitter.com/Tru7hS33kR/status/1050403693340839939Thank you, Senator Duckworth! We are so lucky to have you as a Senator to speak truth to power. Shame that the CiC doesnt have more respect for our veterans.— headless_snowman (@hockeyhoose15) October 11, 2018https://twitter.com/Katnuss72/status/1050422207258742786Duckworthlost both her legs in combat and in April of 2018. Nunes, on the other hand, has been one of Trump’s strongest allies in the Russia investigation headed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.Nunes is viewed by many as having strangled the investigation through requests for top-secret documents relating to the ongoing probe, as well as ending the House Intelligence Committee’s own investigation without having interviewed key witnesses.Social media scoffed at Trump’s idea, and rightly so.	Liberal
Explaining why he supports President Donald Trump, rapper Kanye West said that Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign did not resonate with him as a man and that “there was something” about donning a “Make America Great Again,” or MAGA, hat “thatmade me feel like Superman.”I love Hillary. I love everyone, but the campaign Im with her just didnt make me feel  as a guy  it was something about this hat that made me feel like Superman, famed musician Kanye West said of his MAGA hat while discussing masculinity, the economy and his brand pic.twitter.com/T06Z5tOSIU— POLITICO (@politico) October 11, 2018West added that Trump is on a “hero’s journey.”“Let’s stop worrying about the future, all we have is today,” West said, a nod to his own presidential ambitions.“Trump is on his hero’s journey right now. He might not have thought he’d have a crazy mother-f***r like me [supporting him].”West’s appearance, an already contentious one during which he delivered an often rambling soliloquy praising the president, was savaged by critics.Political commentator S.E. Cupp observed that West, whose mental health punctuated by erratic behavior has often come under scrutiny, was “clearly not okay,” and wanly stated that the president is “willing to exploit” West’s condition for personal gain.Sad. @SECupp said it best about the Kanye-Trump meeting: "That was really sad. I think you had there a man who's clearly not okay, and a president who's willing to who's willing to exploit that." pic.twitter.com/JuadQFMxkH— Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) October 11, 2018Others also weighed in.Between Melania Trump calling herself "the most bullied person in the world" and Kanye West describing his MAGA hat as "a Superman cape" today I feel like I'm up to my eyeballs in boiling bullsh*t.— Steve Silberman (@stevesilberman) October 11, 2018Looks like #KanyeWest locked up the first ever appointment of  #SpaceForce Commander. Of course, if he just wears the #MAGA hat, no need for billons spent on space weapons. Right, #Superman?— TellingItLikeItIs (@No_Filter_Zone) October 11, 2018Kanye is in the White House as a PR stunt but hes the one whos being used. Trumps getting faux legitimacy (he gets to tell white people, How could anyone call me racist when Kanye West loves me?) What does Kanye get to say? "Im big enough to get a pointless visit w Trump?"— Tour (@Toure) October 11, 2018Overheard in the White House press room after reporters left a rambling Oval Office pool spray with President Trump and Kanye West: "Working here is officially insane."— Andrew Restuccia (@AndrewRestuccia) October 11, 2018After decades of insisting celebrities shouldnt get involved in politics, conservatives are now like OMG Kid Rock and Kanye West are at the White House! They can front all they want, but we see how desperate the right is for celebrity attention.— Adam Best (@adamcbest) October 11, 2018There were many other comments West made which left political commentators and members of the public alike scratching their heads in disbelief (psychologists have suggested he suffers from bipolar disorder):“He’s been a terrific guy,” Trump told reporters of West. “You know, he loves what we’re doing for African-American jobs, for so many different things. Median income, as you see, at an all-time high. Poverty level at the best rate — meaning the lowest rate so far. And Kanye is a smart guy. And he sees that.”West earned a certain infamy after he criticized then-President George W. Bushs response to Hurricane Katrina and the governments failure to help victims of the disaster, saying,George Bush doesnt care about black people.The irony is, of course, that West is praising a president who is currently being criticized for his decision to host rallies around the country hours after Hurricane Michael made landfall, decimating communities in the Florida Panhandle.	Liberal
Late night comedian and talk show host Jimmy Kimmel spoke of President Donald Trump’s USA Today OpEd during his opening monologue Wednesday night. The piecepublished on Wednesdaydrew extensive criticism for its inaccurate statements.Kimmel began by stating:“Donald Trump was in fake news today. With midterm elections less than a month away, the President wrote an OpEd in this morning’s edition of USA Today…”“…This OpEd really makes me mad. In it, Trump blasts what he calls the Democrats Medicare for all policy while really, truly outrageously claiming he kept a promise to protect coverage for those with pre-existing conditions.”“[President Trump] wrote: ‘As a candidate I promised we would protect coverage for patients with pre-existing conditions and create new healthcare insurance options that would that would lower premiums. I have kept that promise and we are now seeing health insurance premiums coming down’.”But the Jimmy Kimmel Live host strongly denied Trump’s claims however. Kimmel said:“You didn’t keep that promise. That promise was forced on you because [late Senator] John McCain gave you the finger so you weren’t able to not keep that promise. That’s not keeping a promise.”The audience erupted into cheers and applause at this point. After they quieted, Kimmel continued pointing out that rates would go down in some states, but would go down more in all states if Trump and his “buddies hadn’t spent the last year trying to cripple the plan we have now.” He added:“This is like claiming you saved people from drowning after you put a hole in the side of the ship.”“It’s just a lie. It’s another lie.”Watch Kimmel’s remarks here.This is not the first time Kimmel took the Trump administration or the GOP to task over healthcare. At the beginning of the President’s term when Congress tried to eliminate the Affordable Care Act (ACA) or Obamacare as it is more commonly known, Kimmel made several emotional appeals on his show to save the program.People tended to agree with Kimmel’s assessment.	Liberal
Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts has referred a slew of ethics complaints against Associate Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.In a letter to Chief Circuit Judge Timothy Tymkovich, Roberts referred more than a dozen such complaints against Kavanaugh from September 20 – October 5.“I have selected the Judicial Council of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit to accept the transfer,” Roberts wrote, “and to exercise the powers of a judicial council with respect to the identified complaints and any pending or new complaints relating to the same subject matter.”D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson went public with the complaints in a statement on Saturday:“After the start of Judge Brett Kavanaughs confirmation hearings, members of the general public began filing complaints in the D.C. Circuit about statements made during those hearings. The complaints do not pertain to any conduct in which Judge Kavanaugh engaged as a judge. The complaints seek investigations only of the public statements he has made as a nominee to the Supreme Court of the United States.”The complaints, originally filed with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, stem from Kavanaugh’s testimony during his confirmation hearings last month. Chief Justice Merrick Garland recused himself from the proceedings, and the chief executive of the court expressed “concern that local disposition may weaken public confidence in the process.”One of thefilings alleges that Kavanaugh was not truthful in his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee relating to receiving and using stolen Democratic Party documents from Republican operatives while working in the George W. Bush White House.“In 2002, Manuel Miranda, a Republican staff member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, stole thousands of documents belonging to committee DemocratsIn testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on September 5, 2018 and September 6, 2018 related to his confirmation to the Supreme Court of the United States, Kavanaugh falsely testified under oath that he had no knowledge that Miranda had infiltrated Democratic files, concealed the fact that he knowingly received and read information about the stolen documents and concealed his prior false testimony to the Senate in 2004 and 2006. The July 28, 2002 email from Miranda to Kavanaugh and other emails recently released to the public establish that Kavanaugh gave false testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee”Kavanaugh’s hyper-partisan attacks on Democrats during his confirmation hearings were also the basis for some of the complaints.Another complaint states that Kavanaugh “lied about the sexual assault allegations against him.Filed September 27 by the Democratic Coalition’s Scott Dworkin, the complaint states:“In written testimony submitted to the Senate Judiciary Committee on September 26, 2018, while Kavanaugh remained under oath he, state: the truth is that I have never sexually assaulted anyonenot in high school, not in college, not ever.In his written testimony, he characterized the reports of sexual abuse made by Ramirez and Switnick [sic] as smears, pure and simple. He went on to claim that their reports of sexual abuse were grotesque and obvious character assassination. Kavanaugh demonstrated his lack of fitness to be a judge by falsely attacking the witnesses against him in this manner.”Both of the aforementioned complaints are based on theJudicial Conduct and Disability Act(JCDA) and the Judicial Conference of the United StatesRules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability, which set standards for judicial behavior and temperament.While anyone can file a complaint against a federal judge within their own circuit, we’re in uncharted territory as Kavanaugh now sits on the Supreme Court. Justices are not subject to lower courts’ misconduct procedures, nor can the Supreme Court investigate one of its own.It’s possible, therefore, that all of the complaints may ultimately be dismissed.This is not sitting well with those closely following the Kavanaugh saga.Did John Roberts wait until Brett Kavanaugh was confirmed (as #SCOTUS) to transfer these ethic complaints?If he did, it was a calculated move. He knew after Kavanaugh confirmation, that these complaints could be dismissed. As SCOTUS judge, he'd face no real repercussions.— #NotMyPresident  (@Ducky8abug) October 10, 2018Also dc circuit recused itself as they worked with kavanaugh and couldnt be impartial in good faith. Not that he would have afforded them the same courtesy.— Lissa Guillet (@lissaguillet) October 11, 2018Calculated.— Physique Athlete (@ActivePhysique) October 10, 2018Justice Roberts sat on these complaints until AFTER Kavanaugh was confirmed.  I dont think theres anything that can or will be done now, and especially since the 10th Circuit Judge is a Bush appointee.— PDelarios #FBR (@PDelarios) October 10, 2018The question is why Chief Justice Roberts sat on these complaints. According the article the 10th court will most likely dismiss the complaints as it is not in their jurisdiction and it is moot point as Kavanaugh has been confirmed.— Liz #FireZinke Dylan (@LizDylan123) October 10, 2018WOW!!! Thats a lot of complaints.How do we find the text of those complaints.I transcribed them here: Judicial Misconduct 18-90029 18-90034 18-90044 18-90043  18-90055 18-90059  18-90060 18-90064 18-90065  AND 18-90066 thru 18-90071— Dan G (@gr8fuldaniel) October 10, 2018Unfortunately to be dismissed as moot.— Stanley Cohen (@StanleyCohenLaw) October 10, 2018Unfortunately, or deliberately, Justice Roberts waited until Kavanaugh was on the SCOTUS. The Judiciarys rules on misconduct do not apply to SC justices.The 10th Circuit in all probability will decide this is now a moot point & will dismiss all charges.— Vote Democrat Nov. 6th (@MaggieJordanACN) October 11, 2018Some people are seeing a broader narrative – that Republican corruption has breached the Court.	Liberal
As Hurricane Michael decimated the Florida Panhandle before approaching the Carolinas, President Donald Trump caught flack for holding a campaign rally in Erie, Pennsylvania.Morning Joehost Joe Scarborough said that the president washolding a full-on pep rally while Americans are suffering and dying in northwest Florida.As the criticism grew stronger, hosts ofFox and Friends–arguably the president’s favorite morning show on his favorite network–grasped at straws to defend him.After reminding viewers that the president didn’t want to let down the people waiting in line for his rally, co-host Steve Doocy added that the president began the speech by “talking about thoughts and prayers of the people down there. Another co-host, Brian Kilmeade, assured viewers that the reason the president called into Fox News host Sharon Bream’s show “was to say ‘listen, Im here at the rally, but my thoughts and prayers are with the people of Florida.'”A video of the exchange is available at Mediaite.With two people already dead and over 100 thousand Floridians without power, Americans aren’t buying it.Thoughts and prayers! We're saved! Who needs water & medicine when we've got obtuse platitudes?— 11-yr PharmD / Italian Scallion (@pharmguy730) October 11, 2018I'm always amused when DJT extends #ThoughtsAndPrayers, since he's incapable of one and doesn't perform the other. https://t.co/2ShFZKLTX1— Colley Cibber (@situate) October 11, 2018"Nero fiddles while Rome burns" is a phrase that comes to mind.— Pat Hartman (@PatHartman_) October 11, 2018@foxandfriends thoughts and prayers do nothing. https://t.co/4YGTqqVeNW— Brandolfsky (@dagreatscienski) October 11, 2018Even by Trump’s own standards, holding a campaign rally amidst an impending national disaster is gauche at best.	Liberal
In an exclusive interview with ABC News, Melania Trumpthird wife of President Donald Trumprevealed why she began her “Be Best” campaign to address cyber bullying. ABC News filmed the interview in Africa during her first solo international trip as First Lady.Contrary to the assumptions of many, the FLOTUS’ pet project did not arise from problems she saw with children being bullied on social media. Social media bullying contributes to the suicides of children throughout the United States.Instead of child welfare, Trump stated her inspiration came from herself being the “most bullied person on the world.”The FLOTUS added her program hoped to teach children how to behave so they would know to not bully others when they are adults. Melania Trump stated:“We need to educate the children of social emotional behavior so when they grow up and they know how to deal with those issues.”“I could say I’m the most bullied person on the world”: First lady Melania Trump claims she is among the most bullied people in the world, which has led her to create her anti-bullying “Be Best” initiative https://t.co/m67oHNI9vk pic.twitter.com/WIgCW7XhOL CNN (@CNN) October 11, 2018Watch the first ladies comments to ABC News Chief National Affairs Correspondent Tom Llamas here.EXCLUSIVE: First lady Melania Trump says her Be Best policy platform targeting online bullies is personal. I could say that Im the most bullied person in the world, she tells ABC. https://t.co/iiEv5Z3ijv pic.twitter.com/CWZ7g9by27 ABC News (@ABC) October 11, 2018The fact First Lady Melania Trump’s “Be Best” campaign revolved around ensuring children learned not to bully adults like her, instead of other children, drew criticism online.So…. this is the reason for the online bullying campaign. Not stories about kids being bullied, not all the social media shaming going on…. her own personal “bullying”.This says so much. Shannon M. (@Shannonydm40) October 11, 2018It really does. It really really does. She said so herself that she doesn’t really care about the kids getting bullied at school, or the kids locked in cages at her husband’s detention centers. It’s all about her. Rabid Angel (@b425f3137ef04b6) October 11, 2018Is anyone that surprised? Shes part of a family whos mantra is ME ME ME! Disgraceful. How could people be so fooled? Because @POTUS is borrowing left, right & centre to fund MAGA – guess what? No such thing as a free lunch. Wait till the loans are called in-youll be bankrupt anihatj (@anihatj) October 11, 2018Its all about Melania. Bless her heart. She doesnt have a clue. Mary Lou Ullrick (@mcf0717) October 11, 2018So #bebest is abt her. The entire family is self absorbed. 2sense (@2incensed) October 11, 2018Why do the Trumps make everything about themselves?? DavidC ?? (@motheradamplay) October 11, 2018Narcissism at its worst. It is about them every minute of every day Deb Schadlick (@catemegbob) October 11, 2018@realDonaldTrump & @FLOTUS who sit in a gold-plated tower, are always whining about how they are victims. Cut me a break. And by the way @FLOTUS, you’re married to the biggest bully on the planet. Lynda Fright-Wright (@BroncoBaby10) October 11, 2018Some brought up the First Lady’s recent comments about sexual assault victims.Sorry, Melania, but Im gonna need you to provide some proof and evidence before I can believe you. Otherwise, Im gonna need you to pipe down before you ruin someones future with false claims. ?? Bobbi J White (@bb_whit) October 11, 2018A few made the distinction between bullying and getting backlash for poor personal choices, like demanding to see President Barack Obama’s birth certificate or wearing a jacket that says “I don’t really care, do you?” when going to see children separated from their parents being held in detention facilities.Melania Trump Asks To See Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate – Supported Birther Movementhttps://t.co/2wmBiLItgq Angela VOTE ON NOV 6TH (@AdavisWilliams) October 11, 2018Birtherism disgusts me to no end. Let’s keep reminding people that Melania and her husband were a part of it. Color Me Purple (@ColorMePurple7) October 11, 2018Please, this lady completely backs her husband’s ugly agenda and she positions herself for negative feedback. Like stealing Michelle Obama’s speech, wearing that disgraceful jacket, using those terrible talking points. Must I go on… Keith Rich (@keithmr1) October 11, 2018While others took exception to the Flotus’ characterization of her own situation.	Liberal
Fox News is President Donald Trump’s network of choice, but it appears he’s no longer a ratings goldmine. Although the president has held more rallies around the country than ever, Fox News has recently stopped airing most of his events in full because viewership numbers for Trump’s events have dipped below some of Fox News’ own programming.Trump held three rallies last week. On Saturday, the network showed Trump’s speech from Topeka, Kansas, in full. But a Tuesday rally in Council Bluffs, Iowa,was not aired live on any major network. Last night, instead of airing a rally Trump held in Erie, Pennsylvania, Fox News stuck with its coverage of Hurricane Michael.The Nielsen ratings indicate that Trump is no longer a surefire bet to beat Fox personalities Tucker Carlson, Sean Hannity, or Laura Ingraham. On August 30, a Trump rally in Evansville, Indiana, took the network’s 8 p.m. slot,earning 2.536 million viewers. However, that number is 2.8 million viewers Carlson averaged at that time during 2018s third quarter.The president rallied far less frequently in 2017, but his events at times commanded more than 4 million viewers on Fox News. APolitico assessment of Nielsen ratings found that Trump hasn’t come close to that number in 2018. Nielsen shows that Trump’s rallies this year have typically ranged from 2.5 to 3.5 million viewers. That depends “on a variety of factors, including day, time and whether theres something big on another channel,”Politico notes.With so many rallies, they dont want to give up so much prime-time real estate, said one person familiar with Fox News decision making.ASenate Republican campaign staffer said of the coverage of Trump rallies:It exposes us to a national audience that we normally dont get to. We tend to see lots of new sign-ups and small-dollar donations. Theres obviously folks streaming [rallies] online, but being able to be onstage with the president in front of a prime-time audience is huge for a campaign trying to reach conservatives across the country who will open up their wallets.A source close to the presidentdescribed the declining coverage as a huge loss on the state and local level for Republicans because theyre certainly not going to get any of that on other cable networks.” They added:If they stop taking them completely, that might create a problem.Trump is a massive consumer of the media, so he may be disappointed.Neither the White House nor Fox News has responded to requests for comment. A senior White House official said officials plan to investigatewhy the network would decide to cut away from presidential rallies. The official noted that it’s likelyWhite House communications director Bill Shine, a former Fox News executive, has spoken to colleagues about the trend.	Liberal
On Wednesday, while speaking with reporters in the Oval Office about Hurricane Michaelwith Department of Homeland Security SecretaryKirstjen Nielsen and FEMA head Brock Long in attendancePresident Donald Trump was asked about his rally in Erie, Pennsylvania scheduled for Wednesday night.At the time, Trump said no decision had been made about his second rally in two nights. Tuesday night, Trump held a rally in Iowa.The President speculated if it was better to stay in Washington and monitor the situation with Hurricane Michaelwhich he referred to as“one of the biggest storms ever to hit our country”making landfall in the Florida panhandle or go to Pennsylvania to speak in front of his supporters.But Trump kept stating how long people in Pennsylvania had waited in line, with many coming the night before, to see him. It would be unfair to them to cancel, the President kept saying leading many to speculate he intended to go.“It looks like there are thousands of people already lined up and probably we’ll do that tonight. Right nearby we have thousands of people going tonight and many are there already. I don’t know what to do because we have so many people already there and it’s unfair to them.”But by a bill signing later that afternoon, Trump decided not disappointing his fans took precedence over staying at the White House command center to monitor the storm or government response. When asked if it was the wrong time to leave for a rally in a non-presidential election year, the President responded:“I hear they have thousands of people lined up, and so we are in a little bit of a quagmire. I dont want to disappoint people.”“Theyve gotten theresome people were staying, they got there last night. I believe it starts at about 7:00 So well probably go, cause what are you going to do?”“Tell thousands of people theyve been waiting there all night that were not coming? Thats not fair either.”Watch the President’s remarks here.“We are in a little bit of a quagmire. I don’t want to disappoint people,” President Trump says when asked by @KellyO if he thinks it’s appropriate to continue with his campaign rally tonight as a Cat. 4 hurricane lashes Florida. pic.twitter.com/gVF0Xb4sGA NBC News (@NBCNews) October 10, 2018Then the President tweeted he left the White House for his rally.Departing the @WhiteHouse for Erie, Pennsylvania. I cannot disappoint the thousands of people that are there – and the thousands that are going. I look forward to seeing everyone this evening. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 10, 2018But back in 2012, then businessman Donald Trump had a completely different opinion on Twitter about a President leaving the White House during a storm, even though 2012 was a Presidential election year. Because there is always a tweet from Donald Trump to criticize something President Trump chooses to do.In 2012, Trump stated:Lets be honest, if Obama thought he could get away with campaigning during the storm, then he would have been in Ohio on Monday. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 30, 2012But those weren’t the only tweets people found where Donald Trump criticized President Barack Obama for considering campaigning during a major weather eventwhich Obama did not door its aftermath.	Liberal
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) wasted no time fact-checking President Donald Trump’s profoundly dishonest OpEd in Wednesday’s USA Today.“I took a look at your op-ed, @realDonaldTrump. It needs some work,” Schumer tweeted. “All of the false and misleading words in the world cant cover up how your administration and Republicans in Congress are forcing millions of Americans to pay more for health care.”I took a look at your op-ed, @realDonaldTrump. It needs some work.All of the false and misleading words in the world cant cover up how your administration and Republicans in Congress are forcing millions of Americans to pay more for health care. pic.twitter.com/SjFjonVBef— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) October 10, 2018Below are Schumer’s corrections: Trump’s op-ed was a targeted attack on Democrats for their embrace of Medicare for all, which Trump claimed would harm seniors and end Medicare as we know it.Trump’s claims that Democrats seek to demolish the safety net for seniors are false. In truth, Medicare for all would cost trillions of dollars less than our current employer-based system and would cut out the middlemen – private insurers – leaving medical decisions between patients and doctors.The Medicare for All Act of 2017, championed by Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT), ensures comprehensive coverage for all Americans, including an expansion of Medicaid for additional services beneficial to seniors.These include hospice care, rehabilitation services, long-term nursing care, and mental health treatment.Additionally, Trump’s assertion that Medicare would be weakened by extending it to everyone falls far short of the truth. The Medicare for All Act specifically offers more benefits than the current system allows, thus eliminating the need for private supplemental plans.Trump and the Republicans have sought to weaken the protections provided in the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare; efforts, analyses show, that have actually caused premiums to spike.“As for premiums, they have continued toincrease on average, just at a lower rate than in the past,” The Washington Post noted. “But expertssaythat without Trumps moves to weaken the Affordable Care Act, premiums would be even lower in many states.”Schumer’s overall point was that Trump’s remarks are simply not true. And the president doesn’t seem to know or care that Medicareis a government-run health care system.Needless to say, Twitter was here for Schumer’s snarky fact-check (something USAToday should have done in the first place.)	Liberal
After the sudden announcement that she would be leaving her post at the end of the year, UN Ambassador Nikki Haley and President Donald Trump held a joint announcement where the two heaped piles of praise on each other.The president said:“She’s done a fantastic job and we’ve done a fantastic job together. We’ve solved a lot of problems and we’re in the process of solving a lot of problems.”Haley said:“No, Im not running for 2020. I can promise you what Ill be doing is campaigning for [Donald Trump]. So I look forward to supporting the president in the next election.”In an administration fraught with ceaseless resignations and firingsmany less than amicableit was relatively rare to see the President accept a resignation without making an enemy afterwards.But amidst the praise for the president, Haley was also quick to praise someone else as well: Trump adviser and son in law, Jared Kushner.“Jared is such a hidden genius that no one understands. I mean, to redo thenaftadeal the way he did, what Ive done working with him on the Middle East peace plan, its so unbelievably well done.”Jared Kushner has quite the reputation (complete with an SNL impersonation by Jimmy Fallon), but many found Haley’s suggestion that Kushner is a genius laughable."Jared is such a hidden genius that no one understands"–what a very kind 3rd grade teacher writes about the kid who eats paste— Mark Harris (@MarkHarrisNYC) October 9, 2018It's not hidden: Jared Kushner is a genius at nepotism. And everyone understands. https://t.co/fCcmLJY9VC— Andrew Stroehlein (@astroehlein) October 9, 2018hidden genius that no one understands pic.twitter.com/esWbYai1Gl— Ben Philippe (@gohomeben) October 9, 2018Nikki calls Jared a "hidden genius". Real hidden. So hidden you'd think it doesn't exist (it doesn't).— SKIRT (@talktoskirt) October 9, 2018Jared Kushner is a hidden genius if being a genius is less about finding ways to make the world a better place and more about finding ways to hide your $1.2 billion dollars in debt.— Nick Jack Pappas (@Pappiness) October 9, 2018The praise may generate laughs now, but according to some theories, it could spell something much more foreboding.	Liberal
*This article has been updated.On Tuesday afternoon, Native Twitter began to spread news first reported by The Kansas City Star concerning Sharice Davids, a member of the Ho-Chunk Nation. Davids is the Democratic candidate for Kansas’ Third Congressional District challenging the Republican incumbent, Representative Kevin Yoder.Indian Country Today picked up the story and from there it began to spread on social media.The issue concerned Michael Kalnyan elected GOP official in Kansasand a Facebook message he sent to Anne Pritchett, president of the Johnson County Democratic Womens north chapter. In his Sunday night Facebook message, Republican precinct committeeman Kalny stated:“Little Ms. Pritchett- you and your comrades stealth attack on Yoder is going to blow up in your leftist face. The REAL REPUBLICANS will remember what the scum DEMONRATS tried to do to Kavanaugh in November.”“Your radical socialist kick boxing lesbian Indian will be sent back packing to the reservation.”Indian Country Today characterized the GOP official’s comments as “Mean. Sad. Racist.” when they shared the story on Twitter.Mean. Sad. Racist. Pick the word. Kansas GOP official attacks Sharice Davids. #NativeVote18 #SheRepresents https://t.co/MRiBlP8kOe Indian Country Today (@IndianCountry) October 9, 2018However when asked for comment about the racist, sexist and homophobic attack against her, Davids remained gracious toward the GOP. She stated:“[Kalny’s message] doesnt represent Kansas values, and it doesnt represent the values of the Republicans we know, many who support this campaign.”Native leaders and activists amplified the story and corrected one of Kalny’s assumptions about “Indians.”While this is heinous, racist, and anti-LGBTQ it is also ignorant. The Ho-Chunk Nation of Wisconsin doesn’t have a reservation. https://t.co/VuI3MbB8If Jacqueline Keeler (@jfkeeler) October 9, 2018 Davids grew up on military bases, not a reservation. Many Natives in the United States have never lived on a reservation.Davids’ single Mother was a member of the US Army for over 20 years followed by a career in civil service at the US Post Office. Davids graduated from Leavenworth High School and considers herself a proud Kansan.As Native people continued to spread the story to let people know the type of comments Native people routinely face…Republican precinct committeeman, Michael Kalny, ends a social media temper tantrum with racist jab at @sharicedavids: your radical socialist kick boxing lesbian Indian will be sent back packing to the reservation https://t.co/fqnI3hVYSu Johnnie Jae aka The Brown Ball of Fury (@johnniejae) October 9, 2018Kansas GOP official lashes out at Democratic congressional candidate Sharice Davids: your radical socialist kick boxing lesbian Indian will be sent back packing to the reservation https://t.co/3iHSDoAk3P Ruth H. Hopkins (@RuthHHopkins) October 9, 2018Donate to Sharices campaign here: https://t.co/lHwc5vkPEU https://t.co/5UVPnCsDuF Ruth H. Hopkins (@RuthHHopkins) October 9, 2018An elected Kansas GOP official called Sharice Davids, a member of Ho Chunk Nation and candidate for the U.S. House, a “radical socialist kick boxing lesbian” and said she’d be sent “packing to the reservation.” https://t.co/D1k2G17Vjx Nick Martin (@NickA_Martin) October 9, 2018WOW! How many insults can one create in one sentence??! This kind of venom is so frightening that there has to be repercussions! Serenity Foods (@SerenityFoods) October 9, 2018Lets help her out! https://t.co/rcDO7CHMI6 Martie Simmons (@msimmons444) October 9, 2018…it came to the attention of EMILY’s Listan organization that aims to help elect Democratic female candidates. EMILY’s List had previously endorsed Davids. Davids also earned endorsements from former President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden.A Kansas GOP official called @sharicedavids a radical socialist kick boxing lesbian Indian” who would “be sent back packing to the reservation. This racist, homophobic language is totally unacceptable. We’re proud to stand with her & to help elect her.https://t.co/j7OuenwiHs EMILY’s List (@emilyslist) October 10, 2018Show @sharicedavids that our entire community is standing with her. Donate to help her win and flip this seat in November: https://t.co/KH4fheHXcX https://t.co/RXhmhSNRg8 EMILY’s List (@emilyslist) October 10, 2018From there, the word spread quickly with people pledging their support for the “radical socialist kick boxing lesbian Indian.” More than a few had a message for Kalny as well regarding his choice of insults.	Liberal
Utah Senate candidate Mitt Romney (R) tore into President Donald Trump’s family separation policy during the only debate with his Democratic opponent, Jenny Wilson.“This was a heartbreak,” the former Massachusetts governor said on Tuesday. “This was a dark chapter in American history to see children separated from their parents and to see, as you’ve described, a young child that hasn’t seen their parents in a long time. This is inexcusable and can’t go on.”Mitt Romney: "This was a heartbreak. This was a dark chapter in American history to see children separated from their parents and to see, as you've described, a young child that hasn't seen their parents in a long time. This is inexcusable and can't go on." pic.twitter.com/PWsz1isBcz— The Hill (@thehill) October 10, 2018Romney bemoaned the United States’s long-standing unwillingness to enact effective immigration reforms, and that any policy should target employers that recruit people who illegally enter our country.I think we have to have a secure border, a southern border, I think we have to have a verified system that allows us to punish companies who have hired people who come here illegally,” Romney said.Romney argued that the issue of immigration is not just political, but human.Year after year we talk about immigration and nothing gets done. Whoever of the two of us gets there, let’s pull people together and say let’s get something done,” Romney declared. “This is inexcusable in Americas history and for humanity.People appreciated the sentiment.— Leila Knight (@tchevalier10) October 10, 2018Thank you for fighting. Its absolutely heartbreaking.— Maureen Cassidy (@Maureen_Cassidy) October 10, 2018Never thought I would agree w MR— Roseann Johnson (@lydsj16) October 10, 2018I don't have a good opinion of Mitt Romney, but he got this one right.— Lloyd Hayes (@Traveler_Lloyd) October 10, 2018But many on social media are tired of talk and are especially skeptical of Romney.I will save you all some timeRomney will get inHe will be the new FlakeTalk like he has an independent functioning brainThen he will always vote the party lineLife-long politicianLike 95 percent of DC— FatherofThree (@whiter069) October 10, 2018Sweet. But dont fall for it. Mitt talks like a democrat and but will vote with the Republicans.— Global citizen (@munnu789) October 10, 2018All it takes is a spine, mit— saterj (@sater_john) October 10, 2018Did he say what he is going to do about it as a Senator? Or will he just vote party line like the rest of them??— Elizabeth James (@Chauffeurde3) October 10, 2018Thousands of children are still in custody in various detention centers across the country, and Romney’s use of the past tense has some of the public outraged.WAS? How about IS @MittRomney ? Its still happening. Did you know know that?— Candy  #FRB (@camcspgo4) October 10, 2018WAS????  You mean  STILL IS!!!  Do NOT sweep this under the rug!!!@MittRomney— Gary (@Luvz2Fly) October 10, 2018Was?… Um, its still going on Mitt.— MikeDemo (@mikedemo) October 10, 2018Was? As in past-tense? ITS STILL GOING ON.— Nicole Terry (@NicoleT50364453) October 10, 2018What do you mean, "was?"@MittRomney this is still going on. It isn't a "chapter" in the American story.It *is* the American story.— Stephen Perry (@StephenOfTroy) October 10, 2018Was? It still is @MittRomney WAKE THE EFF UP.— BATTLE IS ON #GlovesOff (@rainyjoan) October 10, 2018Twitter took note of Romney’s remarks, but words only go so far. The American people want action.We have been saying this same thing for months now.— Kimberly Jean (@Seattie) October 10, 2018Don't just talk Mitt…stand up and do something— Robert Byrne West (@RobertByrneWes1) October 10, 2018*IS*! IS a heart break and IS a dark chapter! Not was! Pay attention to something other than how to get votes or line your pockets. Go out and DO something (maybe something a suit would be inappropriate attire for) if you really mean what you say @MittRomney.— RainyDayWitch (@RainyDayWitch) October 10, 2018THEN DO SOMETHING!!!— Barbie Schmidt (@BarbieSchmidt8) October 10, 2018And we wait for actions to back this statement….still waiting.— komunik8 (@komunik8) October 10, 2018So do something talk is cheap!— onalee55 (@VVeraldi) October 10, 2018Great Mitt…..NOW STICK WITH IT AND CRITICIZE 45…..don't be a chump and bow down when he challenges you!  #DoNotBeATrumpBitch— Natakim Jones (@natakimj777) October 10, 2018All it takes is a spine, mit— saterj (@sater_john) October 10, 2018I respect Romney he's what Republicans should be not what they have  become .— Donald F. Sedy (@f_sedy) October 10, 2018Romney is expected to cruise to victory in November to replace retiring Republican and fellow Mormon Orrin Hatch.	Liberal
In an age of often ludicrous headlines, Fox News’ decision to run a story slamming actress Jamie Lee Curtis, who returns as long-suffering horror heroine Laurie Strode in David Gordon Green’sHalloween sequel/reboot, for playing a character “who wields firearms… despite advocating for gun control” offscreen takes the cake today.Jamie Lee Curtis wields firearms in new 'Halloween' movie despite advocating for gun control https://t.co/OL2q5nXtUx— Fox News (@FoxNews) October 10, 2018Fox News reporter Louis Casiano takes the absurdity to greater levels, writing that “Curtiss on-screen actions standin contrast to her real-life persona as an advocate for gun control — one of several Hollywood actors who use firearms in their films while preaching against them away from the set.”These comments didn’t go over very well with many people who pointed out that Curtis is an actress, that she’s the star of a horror film in which she plays a traumatized woman who once escaped a serial killer whofor the second timebreaks out of a mental institution and stalks her and her loved ones, and that her personal views on gun control and the characters she’s played onscreen are not mutually exclusive.Actor does job.— /-\/ /  (@Liam_Savvy) October 10, 2018Have you heard of acting? It's very similar to what your presenters do when they fake outrage about things like this.— David (@PermaConfused) October 10, 2018Hey Fox do you not realize the difference between fantasy/fiction and reality?— AltNSA (@AltNatSecAgency) October 10, 2018The Newtown Action Group, a grassroots organization founded after the 2012 mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, which resulted in 27 deaths, most of them young children, also took the network to task, writing, “Weak gun laws in America is what should scare us-not movies.”The NRA & @FoxNews have difficulty distinguishing fact from fiction. The fair & balanced news station is going after actors like @jamieleecurtis who portray a fictional character with a gun in a scary movie. Weak gun laws in America is what should scare us-not movies. #NoRA https://t.co/V5zj08uvLg— Newtown Action (@NewtownAction) October 10, 2018The article also lent itself to parody: some people responded by purposely conflating actors with some of the famous roles they’ve played.Like this person, who pointed out that Leonardo DiCaprio champions environmental causes despite, you know, succumbing to hypothermia after surviving the sinking of an ill-fated ocean liner inTitanic…Leonardo DiCaprio crusades for the environment despite battling the sea in Titanic. https://t.co/8btc5b1rqU— Anne T. Donahue (@annetdonahue) October 10, 2018…and this person, who notes that Ralph Fiennes is nothing like Nazi war criminal Amon Gth, who was the commandant of theKrakw-Paszw concentration campinPaszwinGerman-occupied Poland. (Fiennes is a UNICEF UK ambassador who has done work in India and Rwanda, and isalso a member of the Canadian charity Artists Against Racism.)Dont even get me started on Ralph fiennes pic.twitter.com/VUo7opgvxh Deej (@djx1984) October 10, 2018But back to Curtis.	Liberal
As the confirmation hearing process for President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee came toward its conclusion, one of Brett Kavanaugh’s former Yale University roommates came forward.The roommate was Jamie Roche, CEO of a software company.Roche stated Kavanaugh lied about his drinking habits in college. The Yale alumnus also said the FBI never contacted him for any of Kavanaugh’s multiple background checks since they graduated.Each of Kavanaugh’s federal jobs required a background check when he began.Brett Kavanaugh’s Yale roommate, Jamie Roche, tells @andersoncooper he has not been contacted by the FBI.Cooper: “So just for the record, you’ve never been contacted either now or in any past investigation.”Roche: “I’ve never been contacted about Brett by the FBI ever.” pic.twitter.com/6kyX0xs15P Anderson Cooper 360 (@AC360) October 4, 2018But a former federal employee familiar with the background check process clarified that the FBI does not investigate each person up for a federal position. The background check is done based on references and information provided by the candidate for employment.The FBI merely verifies the identity and background information as well as interviewing the candidate’s provided references. References must not be related to the candidate by blood or marriage and must know the candidate for the length of time required based on the security clearance neededmeaning the reference knew the candidate for at least 5 years or up to the majority of the candidate’s life.After the Senate confirmed Kavanaugh and after his swearing in to a lifetime appointment to the SCOTUS, Roche took to Twitter. He posted:“Brett Kavanaugh was credibly accused of attempted rape and sexual assault. The hyenas apologized to him, confirmed him and clapped for him. They worry for their sons. I worry for my country. We need to fix this I want my America back.”Brett Kavanaugh was credibly accused of attempted rape and sexual assault. The hyenas apologized to him, confirmed him and clapped for him. They worry for their sons. I worry for my country. We need to fix this I want my America back. Jamie Roche (@jamie_roche) October 10, 2018The Twittersphere reacted to Roche’s message with both calls to do more and gratitude for what the CEO was already doing.Do your damn part. Talk to your friends who know him. Help validate claims. Find old pics. Youre one of the few people with an inside track. Stop bitching on Twitter and hit the phones and keyboards. Help us help you. Jeremy Oliphant (@jeremy_oliphant) October 10, 2018Valid point. Still working on it. Jamie Roche (@jamie_roche) October 10, 2018I appreciate all you are doing and everything you are trying to do. As far as I’m concerned you ARE doing your part — it’s hard to break through all the barriers that have been placed in your path, but you’ve made an effort. Thank you Mr Roche lynn Caldwell (@lynnCaldwell62) October 10, 2018Kudos for trying, Jamie. Let’s keep up the fight. ? Your words matter since you were Kav’s roommate. #VoteBlueToSaveAmerica medit8now (@medit8now) October 10, 2018Thank you for trying. The fix was in long before the hearings. BTW, hyenas is a perfect metaphor for the GOP and their groupies. Kathy Peyser (@KathyPeyser) October 10, 2018You are in a better position than most of us to do something about it. Thank you for your efforts. Please continue, someone soon is going to want to talk to you and hear you. We want accountability. We want our America back too. And as women – we want our bodies back! sharry (@growdandelions) October 10, 2018Others shared Roche’s astonishment over the Senate confirming Kavanaugh despite the outcry against him. Trump’s prior SCOTUS pick, Neil Gorsuch, never faced such opposition from the legal community.Justice stevens, the aba, 1500+ law professors, some were his own at yale, all against his appointment. How the hell do folks look past that? Scott plante (@Scottplante5) October 10, 2018Trump and his enablers are only about preserving power for white elitist men. They will do anything to win. Because they currently hold that power, the only way to defeat them is to vote them out of office, then prosecute them for their crimes. Mike Avila (@MikeAvi84208319) October 10, 2018Others shared his despair over what they felt they had lost.And I want my body back! He has stepped all over women and our rights are at stake! Social security and Medicare will also be on the docket know that Kavanaugh is in there! mimi67 (@mimi67) October 10, 2018Dems cant fix it alone, Republicans wont. Put party aside and join together, all of us to end this. The real power lies in the people, not Congress. There are millions of us and few of them. KScho (@kschones84) October 10, 2018 Roche had been rather quiet on Twitter before his former roommate’s nomination. But that changed in October 2018.	Liberal
USA Today‘s opinion division published possibly the second most notable op-ed to come out of President Donald Trump’s administration. But unlike the scandalous anonymous op-edpublished in the New York Timesearlier this year, this one is written by the president. Its allegiance to the truth reflects that.In the op-ed, the president makes egregious claims regarding a Medicare for All proposal that has seen a huge wave of Democratic support over the last few years..@usatodayopinion: Democrats want to outlaw private health care plans, taking away freedom to choose plans while letting anyone cross our border. We must win this. https://t.co/aVqE7oxDj3— USA TODAY (@USATODAY) October 10, 2018The president says that Democrats are slashing Medicare by 800 billion dollars over the next ten years. The claim is false and, what’s more, Republicans are proposing further cuts to Medicare. The president also parrots false Republican talking points deployed as scare tactics to sow further opposition to the controversial issue of accessible healthcare.It’s not unusual for Donald Trump to lie. In fact, many Americans have come to expect it. That may be whyUSA Todayis receiving the brunt of the criticism against the op-ed.Journalistic malpractice of the highest order. You are complicit, dangerous cowards for allowing this, and you all fucking know it.— Ramzy Nasrallah (@ramzy) October 10, 2018If USA Today was pitched an oped from any other columnists with this many outright falsehoods and exaggerations I think the editors there would have refused to run it. The president obviously gets some special consideration but where is the editorial line drawn?— Sam Stein (@samstein) October 10, 2018This is a lie.The President is lying to the American people, and @usatodayopinion is printing those lies.This is shameful and wrong.— Little Lobbyists (@LittleLobbyists) October 10, 2018This is a flat-out lie. The DOJ currently has a lawsuit that would eliminate protections for pre-existing conditions. It's shocking that USA Today would print this without any fact checking. https://t.co/urVQgnBsTD https://t.co/amDHiRmHck— Emily C. Singer (@CahnEmily) October 10, 2018Many saw the publication of the op-ed as dangerous in an era that frequently sees journalists and the institution of journalism itself ceaselessly under attack.This is so incredibly sad. At a time when news is under attack @USATODAY prints a press release full of lies under the guise of an op-ed. Awful.— Anne-Marie Dorning (@BostonAnnemarie) October 10, 2018This piece is riddled with factual errors, mischaracterizations and outright lies. What a slap in the face to every journalist at @USATODAY that works hard to get it right. This piece should not have been run.  https://t.co/bJhCSDTguc— Brianna Wu (@Spacekatgal) October 10, 2018Thanks for spreading propaganda & nuking any credibility of journalism by providing this pathological liar an outlet to spread his lies. Even if it is just an oped piece.— Aaron Troost  (@Minnytrooster) October 10, 2018Many believe that this op-ed is an attempt to affect the crucial 2018 midterms, now less than a month away.	Liberal
White House advisor Kellyanne Conway on Wednesday took aim at Hillary Clinton, who on Tuesday said that as long as Republicans are in power, there is no room for civility in American politics.It started when Clinton spoke with CNN’s Christiane Amanpour earlier this week about how uncivil Republicans have been to Democrats, and herself, over the years.“You cannot be civil with a political party that wants to destroy what you stand for, what you care about,” Clinton told Amanpour. “That’s why I believe if we are fortunate enough to win back the House and/or the Senate, that’s when civility can start again. The only thing the Republicans seem to recognize and respect is strength.”Watch the clip here:Exclusive: @HillaryClinton says you cannot be civil with a political party that wants to destroy what you stand for, what you care about. pic.twitter.com/t6Q70WLUNQ— Christiane Amanpour (@camanpour) October 9, 2018Conway decided it would be a good idea to attack Clinton –in exactly the manner Clinton described in her CNN interview.In an appearance onFox & Friends, Conway said she doesn’t “like the implications” Clinton had made when accusing the GOP of being uncivil – by lobbing a string of personal attacks against the former Democratic presidential candidate.Conway jabbed at what she feels are Clinton’s supposed shortcomings, like having a law degree from Yale and having been thefirst lady for eight years.“It’s one thing to call us deplorable, irredeemable, to laugh at all the people who don’t have all the privileges she has had with her Ivy League law degree and her marriage to a much more popular man who was a two-term president that she will never be.”“I don’t like that kind of talk,” Conway continued, claiming that she and her boss, Trump, “avoid it.”Conway went on to claim:“My boss has called for civility. He’s said that he represents all Americans.”Watch the full clip here:.@KellyannePolls on @HillaryClinton: "I think her discourse now is a little bit dangerous." https://t.co/VmptX3koWG pic.twitter.com/aLRUCPKUDs— Fox News (@FoxNews) October 10, 2018This claim that Trump has called for civility did not go over too well on Twitter.At rallies, Trump’s fans routinely chant “lock her up,” and the president does nothing to stomp it out.Seriously?? pic.twitter.com/ZfGF5V0AyA— Milky McCarty (@MilkyMcCarty) October 10, 2018 pic.twitter.com/yyazvC01g0— Grpenfhrer (@brvgnrsk) October 10, 2018You should attend a Trump rally.— Catherine Heta (@CatherineHeta) October 10, 2018Remember “alternative facts?”I think her discourse now is a little bit dangerous – says the human who literally reframed the fact that her boss, the president, is a serial liar by coining the term alternative facts.— Christina Rios (@christinalrios) October 10, 2018Alternative Facts Kellyanne???— Julie Jackson (@JulieJa21177914) October 10, 2018The @gop makes sure that irony is never dead. For Kellyanne to say that someone's discourse is dangerous after her spewing alternative facts for years is the absolute height of irony and laughable. Hillary is pointing out REALITY, which is something KAC has NEVER had a grasp of.— Ann (@alf27900) October 10, 2018Or when Trump called Nazis “very fine people?”Call me when she tells supporters to attack the other side and not to worry bc she will pay their bills or call Nazis fine people.— Tiffany "Nice Lady" Neuman (@happypragmatist) October 10, 2018During the 2016 primaries, Conway tore into Trump for the way he ran his businesses.#NuffSaid pic.twitter.com/0jcE5fBvuW— Seor Boom (@SenorBoomNYC) October 10, 2018No one is buying what Conway is selling.	Liberal
Eric Trump’s attempts to get people to register to vote in the upcoming midterm elections backfired after the Rock the Vote Action Fund, which champions young progressives, called him out for using its graphic without accreditation.Trump had written a message encouraging people to visit a Republican website in order to register to vote in time for the elections on November 6 and attached Rock the Vote’s graphic with its logo cropped out.https://twitter.com/EricTrump/status/1049696454292500480“This is a new low. We are an unaffiliated, non partisan organization who encourages everyone to vote, not just one group,” Rock the Vote wrote in response after slamming Trump as someone “accustomed to ripping folks off.”This is a new low. We are an unaffiliated, non partisan organization who encourages everyone to vote, not just one group. @realDonaldTrump @EricTrump https://t.co/daLmS25nKa— Rock the Vote (@RockTheVote) October 9, 2018This goes beyond the page of how our democracy should work, Carolyn DeWitt, the president and executive director of Rock The Vote, said in a statement, accusing Trump and his father President Donald Trumpof only wanting a select few to register to vote and participate in our democracy.Trump’s actions were quickly derided.While stealing the @RockTheVote image, you removed the part that says same day registration is available in some of those states you listed… #bebest— Dastardly Donald (@DastardlyDonal2) October 9, 2018Eric Trump was taught to steal at a young age.— Laurie Lenahan (@laurie_lenahan) October 9, 2018How many times have we seen this fake administration plagiarizing and stealing.  #TrumpIncompetence— Mata Hari (@Socratic1) October 9, 2018That's what the Trumps do: they steal. Steal and defraud. Crime family.— JKDAnthony10 (@JKDAnthony10) October 9, 2018https://twitter.com/DanteUSAInferno/status/1049736158404636672Eric Trump has not responded to requests for comment.This is far from the first time a member of the Trump family has been criticized for using someone’s graphics or words without credit and misrepresenting facts.As recently as August, Eric’s brother,Donald Trump Jr., made headlines for doctoring a CNN graphic to show that his father had achieved a 50 percent approval rating.The doctored image intended to showhis fathers approval ratingat 50 percent versus President Barack Obamas 45 percent approval rating, Second Nexusreportedat the time. Only the 50 percent for Trump failed to pass even brief examination.@DonaldJTrumpJr lies as much as his Dad. This week, he posted an image with fake Trump poll/economic #'s compared to Obama. Never mind that Obama inherited the 2nd biggest recession in US history and built the great economy Trump inherited. #TrumpLieshttps://t.co/KiFUClRrMH pic.twitter.com/FIUYwYw3Ff— John Williams (@ashlandJohn) August 10, 2018	Liberal
Brett Kavanaugh may have been narrowly confirmed to the Supreme Court on Saturday, but the stain of sexual misconduct accusations isn’t going to stop haunting him anytime soon. Take for example Fix The Court‘s new initiative. They’ve launchedBrettKavanaugh.comas a resource for survivors of sexual assault.From the front page of the website:BrettKavanaugh.com is one of three sites – BrettKavanaugh.org and BrettKavanaugh.net being the other two – that are now devoted to connecting survivors with help.Fix The Court, a non-partisan organization that fights for judicial reforms such as term limits, launched BrettKavanaugh.com and the two others so that victims of sexual violence can access various resources to assist in the healing process and to pursue justice.One of thelinks is dedicated to combating sexual assault on college campuses.“We Believe Survivors” is etched into the top of BrettKavanaugh.com.The site bearing the associate justice’s name explains how Kavanaugh’s confirmation is empowering survivors.“The start of Brett Kavanaughs tenure on the Supreme Court may look like a victory for one interest group or another. But, more importantly, it is putting a national focus on the issue of sexual assault  and how we as a country can and should do more to prevent it and to support those who have experienced it.”The creatorspraised women who have found the strength to face their trauma head-on. Many of these women were inspired by Kavanaugh’s accusers – Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Deborah Ramirez, and Julie Swetnick – who publicly alleged that Kavanaugh assaulted them at parties in the 1980’s.“This past month, thousands of survivors came forward to tell their stories. We applaud your bravery. we believe you.”Twitter was all too happy to spread the word. And unfortunately for Kavanaugh, the internet is forever.https://twitter.com/AnUncivilPhD/status/1049781999190315008https://t.co/Nlz9OCDt3D is one of the best websites out there https://t.co/XhBFrwTrrL #JustPlainPolitics— Just Plain Politics! (@JPPolitics_com) October 9, 2018I want everyone to visit this site. Imagine being Brett, knowing this is out there, and there is nothing he can dohttps://t.co/JhdmiRIAHH@realDonaldTrump, I can only imagine you're going to have your boy at the FCC try to shut this down…#FBR#Resist #Kavanaugh #KavaNAW— Johnny Dangerously (@JohnnyDangerJT) October 9, 2018Well done.https://t.co/fuxlIakEcM— casey mooney (@casey_connects) October 9, 2018https://t.co/JVlOjigmor has been put to good use. https://t.co/itqbHVbE2X— Balance of Power PAC (@HillaryPAC) October 9, 2018Best example of what happens when you don't buy your own domain name >> https://t.co/Fz8Wj2FyMv #BelieveSurvivors— Whitney Friedlander (@loislane79) October 9, 2018Brett Kavanaugh may be an angry, drunken liar, but his name has been used to assist the victims of sexual assault.Read & click this URL: https://t.co/oOXDknEIiU— Pitt Griffin (@pittgriffin) October 9, 2018Go to https://t.co/3w1TnT6VWV and be pleasantly surprised. #BelieveSurvivors— Jenelle Riley (@jenelleriley) October 9, 2018Guess his PR team missed a step… brilliant.  https://t.co/bP4Prf7FRL— Melissa C (@MplsMom612) October 9, 2018https://t.co/hQOOcKWcYL makes me happy— june 2, 1910 (@junesecond1910) October 9, 2018https://twitter.com/prestuber/status/1049773640378707968Fix The Court executive director Gabe Roth explained in a statement that the URLs were originally intended to provide information on future Supreme Court nominees.	Liberal
As if the Texas senate race between Democrat Beto O’Rourke and Republican incumbent Ted Cruz wasn’t already close enough, theNew York Timesreleased a report of multiple Evangelical Texas women who are shirking their longtime Republican voting habits to cast the ballot for Beto.Though the women said they’ve always voted Republican due to their staunch anti-abortion beliefs, they’re stinging mad that the Trump administration has weaponized their faith while treating humans who have already been born with flagrant disregard.'I care as much about babies at the border as I do about babies in the womb.' Some white evangelical women are breaking with their longtime Republican past and voting for @BetoORourke https://t.co/ZWxETeOnzB— Elizabeth Dias (@elizabethjdias) October 9, 2018While the small group of Evangelical women mobilizing for Beto O’Rourke aren’t as indicative of voting trends as a poll, they could represent a larger shift or at least the greater flexibility of Evangelical Southern votes than the United States has seen in decades.Americans are cheering for this.Walking the talk of their faith…nice to see.— Gemma Grossi (@grossi_gemma) October 9, 2018Thank you— Paul Cauchi (@paulgcauchi) October 9, 2018May their numbers increase!— Vote November 6 (or Vote Early!) (@knightopia) October 9, 2018awesome— Amelia (@chem_af) October 9, 2018When it comes to their opinions on the current Republican party, these women aren’t holding back.	Liberal
During his announcement of the pending resignation of United Nations ambassador Nikki Haley, President Donald Trump naturally praised her as he has done with all of the people who left his administration.Trump focused on how friendly and likable Haley was at the UN. She “got to know all the players” according to the President.But one compliment Trump paid to Haley is rubbing people the wrong way. When asked about Haley’s successor, the President said many people wanted the job. Then he stated:“I think she’s helped make it a much better position, if you want to know the truth. I think it’s become maybe a more glamorous position than it was two years ago.”“Maybe, I wonder why, but it is. I mean, she’s made it a very glamorous position”Watch the President’s comments here.Trump thanks Haley for making UN ambassador “a more glamorous position”. pic.twitter.com/FT7flLJSgi Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) October 9, 2018Trump on Haley’s effect on the UN Amb job: “I think it’s become a much more glamorous position.” Jim Acosta (@Acosta) October 9, 2018People picked up on the disparity of Haley’s exit versus those of other administration officials of similar rank. Trump did not mention how glamorous Scott Pruitt made the EPA.Trump saying Nikki Haley, a woman who fearlessly took on Putin, Assad and Rouhani, made the U.N. ambassadors post more glamorous actually made me throw up in my mouth a little. S.E. Cupp (@secupp) October 9, 2018AND THEY WONDER WHY WE MARCH.Trump just thanked Nikki Haley, who is, whatever you think of her, a woman who has wielded enormous power at the United Nations, for making the UN ambassador a “more glamorous position.” ?????? #tuesdaythoughts pic.twitter.com/9LwoEv5R0Z Holly Fero O’Relly (@AynRandPaulRyan) October 9, 2018pic.twitter.com/r2G4GlDHMr Susan Daniel (@SusanDa50168535) October 9, 2018The only way he values a woman is by her looks. EU Queen. #FBPE (@VeeCee30) October 9, 2018I want the next secretary of defense to wear a bikini to work Liam-Kane (@LiamKane011) October 9, 2018pic.twitter.com/vMg5kwHl5z Scott Smith (@sssmith0520) October 9, 2018In Trump’s mind, there is no higher praise that he can bestow on a woman than that. Cosmogony Persists (@Thirdsyphon) October 9, 2018In the UN shes a 10, but there isnt much competition. Like, really smart (@RosserClark) October 9, 2018@realDonaldTrump Why glamorous? Because Haley is female? As a professional Im sure she brought commitment, personal integrity,and insight and depth of character. You have nothing else to say but glamorous?Thats your culture of moral corruption and the degradation of women. Rene Carvajal (@ReneCarvajal20) October 9, 2018Sexist Pig!! @realDonaldTrump Kristi ?????????????? (@kmlalan) October 9, 2018Glamorous? It’s the freaking UN Ambassador position. When was it decided that it needed to be glamorous? Mary Rutledge (@msufans5) October 9, 2018Welcome to trumpworld. Are you new here. Women are here to make things pretty and distract from the fact that our nation is in free fall. Kitkat (@kristinmary63) October 9, 2018Some recalled another UN ambassador.That’s a slam at Shirley Temple Black?? John Carpenter (@jcinhct) October 9, 2018People were not pleased with an assessment of a woman’s job performance being boiled down to how friendly she was and how glamorous she made the position.	Liberal
Democratic voter enthusiasm is surging with just one month to go until the midterm elections, a new CNN/SSRS poll released on Tuesday reveals.Excitement about the upcoming election among Democrats and Democratic-leaning Independents has surged, with 62 percent of respondents saying they are either extremely enthusiastic or very enthusiastic to vote. That’s a seven-point boost from September.On the Republican side, enthusiasm has basically held steady, going from 50 to 52 percent since last month.These numbers show that Republican hopes of a bump in enthusiasm within their party in the wake of Brett Kavanaugh’s divisive confirmation to the Supreme Court may be nothing more than a desperate fantasy.That’s because Americans trust Democrats more than Republicans on the issue of sexual assault, allegations of which nearly sunk Kavanaugh’s nomination, 50-39 percent, according to the poll.Still, Republicans are adamant that they’re winning.On Monday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) said the ongoing protests of Kavanaugh, which he described as a “mob,” certainly had a good impact for us” and that Republicans “are pretty excited.”Democrats, McConnell claimed, “managed to deliver the only thing we hadnt figured out how to do, which is to get our side fired up.President Donald Trump also cited a “left-wing mob” on Twitter and at several rallies.You dont hand matches to an arsonist, and you dont give power to an angry left-wing mob. Democrats have become too EXTREME and TOO DANGEROUS to govern. Republicans believe in the rule of law – not the rule of the mob. VOTE REPUBLICAN!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 7, 2018That mob, the survey says, is set to trample Republicans in November.CNN explains just how much momentum is swelling behind Democrats:“In fact, Democrats’ enthusiasm today more closely resembles the 2008 presidential election. Just before President Barack Obama was elected, 45% of Democrats and Democratic-leaners said they were extremely enthusiastic about voting that November. In 2008, Democrats won eight seats in the Senate and 21 in the House, as well as a victory in the presidency.”The poll has even more good news for Democrats hoping to ride a blue wave to victory, which this year means the potential to take back the U.S. House of Representatives.On the generic ballot, Democrats hold an impressive 13-point advantage over Republicans, the survey found, with 54 percent of likely voters saying they intend to vote blue. Just 41 percent said theyintend to vote for the GOP.“This is the widest margin of support for Democrats in a midterm cycle since 2006, when at this point, the party held a whopping 21-point lead over Republicans among likely voters,” CNN noted. “That’s also when Democrats seized control of the House from Republicans, making Nancy Pelosi speaker until 2011.”Like the enthusiasm gap, voter preference on a generic ballot defies the messaging coming from the White House.Trump in recent weeks has boasted about a “red wave” he believes will help Republicans hang onto control of Congress. Since June, Trump has tweeted about a red wave seven times.Great night for Republicans! Congratulations to John Cox on a really big number in California. He can win. Even Fake News CNN said the Trump impact was really big, much bigger than they ever thought possible. So much for the big Blue Wave, it may be a big Red Wave. Working hard!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2018Republicans should stop wasting their time on Immigration until after we elect more Senators and Congressmen/women in November. Dems are just playing games, have no intention of doing anything to solves this decades old problem. We can pass great legislation after the Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 22, 2018Presidential Approval numbers are very good – strong economy, military and just about everything else. Better numbers than Obama at this point, by far. We are winning on just about every front and for that reason there will not be a Blue Wave, but there might be a Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018As long as I campaign and/or support Senate and House candidates (within reason), they will win! I LOVE the people, & they certainly seem to like the job Im doing. If I find the time, in between China, Iran, the Economy and much more, which I must, we will have a giant Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018RED WAVE!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018Great Republican election results last night. So far we have the team we want. 8 for 9 in Special Elections. Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 15, 2018A Blue Wave means Crime and Open Borders. A Red Wave means Safety and Strength!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 21, 2018The president hasn’t offered any evidence of this. In fact, a key demographic may spell doom for the party of Trump.Women are especially emboldened to vote for Democrats in November, the survey said. Women plan on voting blue over red by a whopping 30-point margin – 63 to 33 percent. CNN said that if the polling data translates into actual votes, Democrats could see the most gains in the House since 1976, thanks to women voters.Still, there is a little bit of light for Republicans.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s approval rating has taken some hits in recent weeks, but that didn’t stop the team at “Fox and Friends”one of his favorite programsfromdescribing his approval rating as soaring even though it is a significantly low approval rating for a president just ahead of a midterm election.The Fox & Friends Twitter account posted an analysis of CNNs latest poll that showed Trumps approval at 41 percent, compared with 36 percent approval last month. “Fox and Friends” decided to focus on the five-point differential, misrepresenting its true meaning in the process. The program described Trump’s approval rating as “soaring.”The tweet was quickly derided by social media users who noted the program’s loose interpretation of CNN’s numbers and was soon taken down. But the internet is forever, and many lashed out at the network for considering a 41 percent approval rating a “win” for the president.When you soar to 41% after almost 2 years as #POTUS what does that say? Look under the hood and do your homework. Its one thing to be good at rhetoric, its another to make sure reality is serving the widest population of citizenry in meaningful ways. https://t.co/OcgPF2xaJ7— Beech (@peaceinhand) October 9, 2018No one brags about a 41% approval rating. A baseball team with a 41 percent win ratio are losers. A football team who won 6 games isnt going to the Super Bowl. The GOP is losing and its not the Dems, its the disaffected who normally dont vote and disgusted real Republicans.— wthgop? seriously (@dmdo1016) October 9, 2018@foxandfriends you guys are almost as pathetic as President Trump bragging about his abmismal approval ratings. Trump likes to be #1 well he is the only president in the history of modern polling to have a disapproval rating above 50 percent at this point in his first term.— Seriously_Confrused (@bat_vangogh) October 9, 2018State run media trying to spin the lowest approval numbers in modern presidential history for their boss @realDonaldTrump   RT @foxandfriends: President Trumps approval rating soars  up 5 points from September https://t.co/Hjnb4tfOKz— Trump White House: Lies and nothing but the lies (@thecitizeNY) October 9, 2018CNN’s poll found that those who “approve of the President largely say they are driven more by his views on the issues (72%) than by his personality and leadership qualities (21%), while those who disapprove are more apt to do so because of his personality (52%) than his issue positions (38%).”A newMorning Consult poll on the 50 states updated last Thursday shows thatthe president’s approval rating has dropped in every state since his inauguration. Some highlights from the poll:Trumps presidency has been largely about what people are willing to overlook for what they think is most important, Jason Perry, director of the University of Utahs Hinckley Institute of Politics, told theSalt Lake Tribuneyesterday.Added Perry: “Right now we are seeing that even with a conservative Supreme Court nominee, new trade deals and the lowest unemployment rate in 50 years, the balance has shifted in the minds of many voters as they react to some of the presidents more controversial qualities.”The president has often ignored or discounted polls that report low approval ratings. In August, his son, Donald Trump Jr., made headlines for doctoring a CNN graphic to show that his father had achieved a 50 percent approval rating.“The doctored image intended to showhis fathers approval ratingat 50 percent versus President Barack Obamas 45 percent approval rating,” Second Nexus reported at the time. “Only the 50 percent for Trump failed to pass even brief examination.”@DonaldJTrumpJr lies as much as his Dad. This week, he posted an image with fake Trump poll/economic #'s compared to Obama. Never mind that Obama inherited the 2nd biggest recession in US history and built the great economy Trump inherited. #TrumpLieshttps://t.co/KiFUClRrMH pic.twitter.com/FIUYwYw3Ff— John Williams (@ashlandJohn) August 10, 2018It’s not only stateside where Trump’s approval rating has suffered, occasional jumps and all.	Liberal
*this story has been updated, see end for latest informationA little before 10:30am EST, both President Donald Trump and White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders teased of big news to come from the Oval Office.They took to Twitter to inform the public. President Trump posted:“Big announcement with my friend Ambassador Nikki Haley in the Oval Office at 10:30am.”Big announcement with my friend Ambassador Nikki Haley in the Oval Office at 10:30am. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 9, 2018Which Sanders echoed.President Trump and Ambassador Nikki Haley will meet in the Oval Office at 10:30am this morning. This event will be open to the pool. Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) October 9, 2018The announcement? United Nations Ambassador and former Republican Governor of South Carolina, Nikki Haley will leave her position at the UN in December.Watch the announcement here. However one portion of Haley’s remarks drew more attention than others from people speculating about the latest departure from the Trump administration. Haley gave effusive praise to Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump and people think that means something.Watch it here.Nikki Haley thanks Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, says they “do a lot of things behind the scenes that I wish more people knew about.”“I can’t say enough good things about Jared and Ivanka. Jared is such a hidden genius that no one understands.” https://t.co/9bA70HUh0k pic.twitter.com/bupgPMZJ0J Evan McMurry (@evanmcmurry) October 9, 2018So why the speculation?People who track online activity by the Trump administration on Twitter noticed a number of new account follows by First daughter and White House advisor Ivanka Trump yesterday.According to @Trumpsalert, @IvankaTrump started following a lot of Defense Department accounts yesterday pic.twitter.com/J3ZtngjloG Dave Brown (@dave_brown24) October 9, 2018That coincidence led some to speculate on Haley’s UN replacement.Yesterday: Ivanka Trump starts following a lot of Defense Department accounts on Twitter.Today: Nikki Haley resigns as UN Ambassador.Right now: Nikki Haley says, “I can’t say enough good things about Jared and Ivanka.”Future: UN Ambassador Daddy’s Little Girl. ?? Santa Claus, CEO ???? (@SantaInc) October 9, 2018Ivanka will be appointed to take over Nikki Haleys UN ambassador role #Prediction Joe Williams (@Who_Dat1906) October 9, 2018People quickly picked up the theory, but few gave ringing endorsements for a UN ambassador post for Trump’s eldest daughter with ex-wife Ivana.Ivanka Trump to replace Nikki Haley? Would just prove you can buy ANYTHING in the Trump administration. https://t.co/7725nFfMiq Nanny Kat (@Nannykat1953) October 9, 2018Odds on who’ll replace Nikki Haley;Ivanka Trump 4/6 Barron Trump 5/2 Random conspiracy nut 4/1 Jeanine Pirro 8/1 Someone actually qualified 5000/1 Mike Pence – Professional Mannequin (@JSJAJR) October 9, 2018So this Nikki Haley thing smells and not like Chanel #5. After all the Jared and Ivanka praising by Hayley, does anyone else think trumps going to try and install his know nothing about foreign policy daughter at the UN? We need to take the House. VOTE please Katherine Burchim (@Katheri56931902) October 9, 2018“I can use scissors and a shovel. Of course, I’m qualified to be UN Ambassador!” ~ Ivanka Trump, probablyU.N. Nikki Haley Jared Kushner United Nations UN Ambassador pic.twitter.com/cc2pFLaJF5 ?? Sassy Mouth ?? (@SassyMouth2012) October 9, 2018He’s going to make Ivanka UN Ambassador. Then he’ll run her as VP in 2020. Then she’ll be president, life will finally catch up to House of Cards, and then we can cancel Netflix. What I’m saying is, in the long run, Nikki Haley quitting could save us 8 bucks a month. Michael Ian Black (@michaelianblack) October 9, 2018However some predicted an even larger shuffle on tap.	Liberal
Americas love affair with scooters lasted about a minute, if that. As companies like Lime, Skip and Bird roll out their pay-per-minute electric scooter rental programs, cities across the country are dealing with the fallout, and its not pretty.In California, where electric scooters have become part of the high-tech industrys impact on urban culture, the scooters are being vandalized and destroyedand those doing the damage are bragging about it. On the most exhibitionistic corners of the Internet, scooter abuse is being documented and proudly displayed. The Instagram account Birdgraveyard, which has more than 24,000 followers, features images and films of scooters that have met their tragic demise by being burned, tossed into the sea, festooned with dog doody bags, and otherwise desecrated.They throw them everywhere: in the ocean, in the sand, in the trash can, said Robert Johnson Bey, a Venice Beach, California, maintenance worker. Sunday, I was finding kickstands everywhere, Bey said. Looked like they were snapped off.The scooters, which have an estimated value of about $1,000, cost users just $1 to unlock and 15 cents per minute to ride, making them an affordable, environmentally friendly alternative to urban gridlock and public transportation. But they have been met with bureaucratic dismay in many cities due to their unregulated and difficult to categorize nature, and because the scooters are often scattered around at street corners, in unsightly piles, in the middle of sidewalks, on wheelchair ramps, and wherever they may end up. Likewise, citizens who dont love them seem to hate them, or the companies that own them, or the people who ride them, or scooters in general purely as a symptom of change.The scooters zip along sidewalks at speeds of up to 15 miles per hour, generating animosity from pedestrians. Some cities have questions about safety, as emergency room doctors report a sudden onslaught of scooter-related broken bones, concussions, and other injuries. Worse, fatalities have occurred in several cities as inexperienced riders meet unprepared automobiles.“You have a public that hasn’t been aware of the inherent dangers in what they see as a fun recreational vehicle,” said Dr. Sam Torbati, co-chair of the emergency department at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. “They’re no safer than any other motorized vehicles, and in some ways, are more dangerous than a bicycle.”Seattle banned scooters, although some scooter supporters note that when the Alaskan Way Viaduct, which runs through downtown, closes for reconstruction in January 2019, a Seattle that is already facing crushing traffic will become even more difficult for car commuters. Scooters could bring some relief by reducing the number of cars stuck in traffic.	Liberal
Finally securing the confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court wasn’t enough for President Donald Trump.Trump has taken to Twitter to decry the many protesters who mobilized outside of the Supreme Court building and the United States Capitol, as well as those who disrupted Kavanaugh’s hearing process in acts of civil disobedience.The president is claiming these protesters were paid, presumably by Democrats.The paid D.C. protesters are now ready to REALLY protest because they havent gotten their checks – in other words, they werent paid! Screamers in Congress, and outside, were far too obvious – less professional than anticipated by those paying (or not paying) the bills!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 9, 2018Not surprisingly, Trump presented no evidence for these claims, but the tweet certainly reminded some of a story from 2015, when Trump himself actually did pay for people to appear at his campaign announcement event.Again: Trump's campaign launch included paid attendees and the campaign didn't pay the firm that hired them for months. https://t.co/WsxJ5xe7Oo— Philip Bump (@pbump) October 9, 2018Here's the story, which came out on the day of his inauguration. https://t.co/zyluU1VYVV— Philip Bump (@pbump) October 9, 2018As Trump tweets this morning again claiming anti-Kavanaugh protesters were paid, it's a good time to remind that Trump's campaign paid people $50 each to cheer for him at his presidential announcement in 2015. https://t.co/lzmehmlFjA— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) October 9, 2018And of course, it was his paid supporters who had to wait to get paid.h/t to @jules_su for pointing out that even the firm that hired the actors to cheer Trump's campaign launch had to wait to be paid until about a month after a complaint was filed with the FEC: https://t.co/1Tut8fYyDP https://t.co/t0sfyN8Vbx— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) October 9, 2018For his 2015 campaign announcement, a firm called Extra Mile hired people to cheer for then-candidate Donald Trump as he descended the escalator to the lower lobby of Trump Tower where he announced his candidacy for President. The fake supporters were paid $50 each. The news was initially overshadowed by claims Trump made in the announcement that would go on to characterize his entire platform: Undocumented immigrants are rapists and criminals.To exacerbate the hypocrisy, it took the Trump campaign a month after a Federal Elections Commission complaint to pay Extra Mile for the money it paid protesters and the other services it provided.People aren’t hesitating to point this out.#PresidentYetiPubes,I've scoured Craigslist and the only ads soliciting paid actors for political demonstrations I can find are for *your* 'Triumph of the Will' rallies. But if anyone would be able to identify 'fake' it should be you who (very nearly) wrote the book.— Bill Kenny (@waterloosunset) October 9, 2018Psychological projection is a theory in psychology in which the human ego defends itself against unconscious impulses or qualities (both positive and negative) by denying their existence in themselves while attributing them to others.— The Boots (@therealincogneg) October 9, 2018https://twitter.com/MrsScales1/status/1049672450257166339And past the hypocrisy, other voices are explaining to Trump why they don’t expect payment for protest.	Liberal
On Tuesday morning, the couch at Fox News Fox & Friends continued to celebrate a win for one of their biggest fans, President Donald Trump. However, Fox News senior legal analyst, former judge Andrew Napolitano, is being accused of raining on their victory parade.Fox & Friends hosts continued to laud the President for his Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, being confirmed by the Senate and handed a lifetime appointment to the SCOTUS. But Judge Napolitano had criticism for Trump’s handling of his post confirmation vote public appearances.On Monday, Trump told reporters Kavanaugh was the target of a hoax that was set up by Democrats.” During a recent rally, the President brought up Kavanaugh versus the Democrats several times.Congressional Republicans did the same. Both also floated conspiracy theories that those demonstrating opposition to Kavanaugh were paid protesters.While Napolitano praised Kavanaugh’s statements about the court being an undivided, impartial team of nine, he took exception to the President’s continuing to push the Kavanaugh versus the Democrats narrative. Napolitano stated:“I do not think the best thing that was said was ‘evil’ or ‘hoax,’ and I honestly wish that the president and his people would get past that.”The formerNew Jersey Superior Court judge added:“The Supreme Court does not have an army to enforce its rulings. Its rulings depend upon the intellectual legitimacy of the manner in which the rulings are given, from whom they are given.”“They really have some work to do to patch up the divisions that exist in the public mind. These divisions dont exist in reality in the court.”Napolitano maintained that Trump and congressional Republicans trying to use Kavanaugh’s confirmation process to bolster support in the November midterms hurts their new justice’s vow to be impartial in the minds of the public.Fox & Friends host Steve Doocy interjected to justify the partisanship narrative Trump and the GOP are amplifying surrounding their newly sworn in SCOTUS judge. Doocy pointed out the appointment and confirmation process is political.But Napolitano corrected him by stating all judicial appointments go through a political confirmation process, including his own. Politicians appoint the judges then the political system of elected officials conducts the review and confirmation.Then Napolitano added:“Once you put that [judge’s] robe on, you must be divorced from the politics that got you there and the people that got you there. Because your loyalty is to the Constitution and to the laws, not to the human beings that helped you get your job.”The former judge’s point being that the longer the President and GOP leadership portray Kavanaugh as “their guy” against the Democrats and those who protest against his appointment, the more they harm Kavanaugh’s reputation and appearance of impartiality.Watch the exchange here.Fox’s Andrew Napolitano suggests that Trump calling Dr. Ford’s testimony a “hoax” and Democrats “evil” for opposing Kavanaugh may have damaged the “intellectual legitimacy” of the Supreme Court. pic.twitter.com/eIQ4v4P25B Bobby Lewis (@revrrlewis) October 9, 2018Reactions online to Trump’s strategy appear to confirm Napolitano’s criticisms.	Liberal
Taylor Swift’s Sunday Instagram post rallying her followers to register to vote appears to be paying off, with registrationssurging weeks before November’s midterm elections.“You need to register, which is quick and easy to do,” Swift told her fans. “October 9th is the LAST DAY to register to vote in the state of TN. Go to vote.org and you can find all the info. Happy Voting!”	Liberal
Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a North Dakota Democrat, voted against newly appointed Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation, and she knows that choice has made her the most vulnerable Democrat in the Senate.“It’s been a tough week for me,” said the legislator as she spoke to a crowd of her constituents in the reliably red state, pointing out that she wasn’t raised “to vote a certain way so that I could win. They raised me to vote the right way.” (That statement got her a standing ovation.)Speaking to the press afterward, Heitkamp recalled that she, who voted to confirm Justice Neil Gorsuch, was planning to vote to confirm for Kavanaughin fact, her office had prepared a statementuntil the highly contentious Senate Judiciary Committee hearing during which Dr. Christine Blasey Ford recalled an alleged assault Kavanaugh committed against her at a high school party. Heitkamp said it was her decision to watch the hearing for a second timewith the sound off that convinced her not to confirm Kavanaugh to the nation’s highest court.North Dakota Sen. Heidi Heitkamp was ready to vote "yes" on Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Then she watched him with the sound off. https://t.co/lcgBGP7dqH pic.twitter.com/ThLGACVZSO— CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) October 9, 2018“We communicate not only with words but we communicate with body language… I saw someone who was very angry, very nervous. I saw a ragethat a lot of people said, ‘well, of course, you’re going to see rage he’s being falsely accused,’ but it is at all times you’re to acquit yourself with a demeanor that’s becoming of the court,” she said.Heitkamp said that her own experience as an attorney also contributed to her decision not to confirm Kavanaugh:“I certainly think I have expertise beyond a number of people within the United States Senate and that expertise is that I have sat across the desk with victims people I’ve believed when they told me their story, and I had to say,’I believe you but these cases can’t be proved beyond a reasonable doubt so we can’t proceed with the prosecution.’ And when you’ve done that, you know for a victim, the most important thing you can say is ‘I believe you’ if you do, and I think it really came down to that I believed her.”Addressing criticism that siding with Dr. Ford is a type of “victimization,” Heitkamp said:“You should be so grateful that you’ve never been victimized and that your wife’s never been victimized, and your daughters haven’t, but people in my life have, including my mother, and to suggest that she’s not strong because she’s a victim was like a trigger for me…And I want you to put this in there, it did not make my mom less strong that she was a victim. She got stronger and she made us strong. And to suggest that this movement doesnt make women strong and stronger is really unfortunate.Heitkamp has been praised for her stance, but she has been trying to hold onto her seat in a state Trump won by 36 percentage points. Her move has resonated with women around the country who have pledged more donations and support for her campaign with less than a month until midterm elections.Hey everybody @HeidiHeitkamp needs not only money but campaign volunteers. If you've got some time to spare, go help her out. Don't let this man get to the Senate. Please. https://t.co/UuuoWoJE5C— Joan Walsh (@joanwalsh) October 8, 2018This morning I donated to @clairecmc  and @HeidiHeitkamp (for the 3rd time). WE MUST take back the Senate and END Mitch McConnells reign of terror.  We cant afford to allow them another Supreme Court pick.  Support senators in close races – we can do this!— Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) October 8, 2018Please send @SenatorHeitkamp support. Shes a hero. https://t.co/4gpby9vkiA— Neera Tanden (@neeratanden) October 8, 2018.@KamalaHarris sent a fundraising email for @SenatorHeitkamp praising her no vote on Kavanaugh.It raised over $400,000 in 24 hours, source tells me pic.twitter.com/FfYzcixRvF— Kasie Hunt (@kasie) October 6, 2018In contrast, Heitkamp’s opponent in the midterms, Kevin Cramer, has said that the #MeToo movement is a “movement toward victimization.”They cannot understand this movement toward victimization. They are pioneers of the prairie. These are tough people whose grandparents were tough and great-grandparents were tough,” he said of North Dakotans, particularly the women in his family.North Dakotans, he said, appreciate the value of saying what a lot of other people dont dare say  but think.When asked for an example, he, alluding to Dr. Ford and her testimony, replied:That youre just supposed to believe somebody because they said it happened.”	Liberal
A majority of Americans are opposed to newly-confirmed Associate Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, a CNN poll released on Monday shows.The survey, conducted by Social Science Research Solutions, found that 51 percent of the public oppose Kavanaugh’s confirmation, while only 41 percent approve.That’s a 12 percent increase from last month when Kavanaugh’s disapproval rating was clocked at 39 percent.Kavanaugh’s nomination was rocked by multiple accusations of sexual assault dating back to his time in high school and college, and the poll indicates that most of the country believes Kavanaugh’s accusers’ stories over the judge’s defense.CNN explains:“All told, 52% of Americans say they believe the women accusing Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct over the judge’s denials of those accusations (38% said they believed him more than the women).”Americans also feel that Kavanaugh was not honest about his past, which allegedly included blacking out from drinking.“half (50%) said they thought he lied about his alcohol use as a young adult, more than thought he was telling the truth about it (37%).”More than half the country also said Kavanaugh’s aggressive conduct during the hearings is unsuitable for a Supreme Court justice.“Half say Kavanaugh’s personal conduct has disqualified him to serve on the court, and 53% say his professional qualifications do not outweigh any questions about his personal conduct.”Oddly, however, a majority of those surveyed Kavanaugh was part of a “smear campaign,” by a margin of 48-45 percent. That includes 27 percent of Democrats.Social media gave its own take on the poll. Opinions varied, with seemingly everyone holding some sort of grudge.We are pissed at the Democrats but disgusted with the Republicans. That is the distinction.— Daniel Armbruster (@BigDaddyDex) October 8, 2018Im an Independent. I dissaprove of the R handling the most and believe they tried to avoid not only Providing Ds with his records but also were complicit in a sham FBI investigation designed to manipulate voters who werent paying close attention.— Mary Lynn (@MLottawa342) October 8, 2018I'm an independent and these poll results come as no surprise.— Rome Sims (@RomeSims) October 8, 2018The Dems were suppose to give the GOP information that wasnt supposed to be released. My question is what difference would it have really made considering what they did with it when they did get it. The outcome would have been the same, no matter what. OPC!— Reginald Morgan (@MorganXtra) October 8, 2018Disapprove of Dems handling in the sense that Independents wish the Dems had done more, had been able to do more, to address the sexist and patriarchal insults hurled by the GOP during the confirmation. Dissatisfaction with the Dems does NOT equate to support for #BEERBROBRETT— DragonRock (@DragonRock10) October 8, 2018Thats dumb. Democrats handled it fine. Why are these people so vulnerable to propaganda?— Cambridge AnalytiKate (@kate_hess) October 8, 2018The independents need to get a grip! How on earth democrats are to be balmed! They had no access to 90% of BKs paper trail, they were accused of leaking Dr Fords story which turned out to be another GOP lie. So, great the independents are going to vote for GOP. This is hopeless— Minoo Osborne (@MinooOsborne) October 8, 2018the GOP congress was a way more effective minority party opposing BO in his first term than Dems are at opposing DT. I am a left leaning voter, and the Dem Senate is completely useless. All they do is throw their hands up and yell and get ran over, around and through by Mitch.— Andrew Lombardi (@alo53) October 8, 2018The GOP was in the minority for only half of that term. In that time they failed to block any EOs, Ledbetter & the ACA; the biggest piece of legislation passed before the midterm. Meanwhile the Dems have managed to prevent ACAs long-promised repeal while holding no houses.— Iconoclast Of Things (@IoTPod) October 8, 2018The poll found that the opposition to Kavanaugh is stark among party lines, too.	Liberal
Monday, speaking from Louisville, Kentucky, Senate Majority Leader, Republican Senator Mitch McConnell addressed the protests over the confirmation process of President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh.Unlike some of his colleagues and the President, McConnell stopped short of stating protesters were paid to protest. However he did say they were clearly “trained” based on how well they did.In organizing protests, it is common practice to let people know what to expect and what they could and should not do. Many of the most effective protests probably did benefit from shared knowledge.However McConnell, like his fellow members of the GOP, intended to imply the protesters were not there to express their own views and opinions, but rather were paid to victimize the Republican Party by rich liberal leaders. That narrative dominated statements made by numerous members of the GOP for the last several weeks.The Congressperson as victim to the voice of their constituents was further emphasized by McConnell’s choice of words in his opening statement. He said:“I couldnt be prouder of the Senate Republican Conference… we were literally under assault.”“These demonstrators, Im sure some of them were well-meaning citizens. But many of them were obviously trained to get in our faces, to go to our homes up there. Basically almost attack us in the halls of the capitol. So there was a full-scale effort to intimidate…”Watch McConnell’s comments here.Considering the reason many people protestedthe multiple sexual assault allegations against Kavanaughthe Senate Majority Leader’s choice to use the word “assault” to describe his own situation angered many people.McConnell complains about pre-Kavanaugh vote protests:https://t.co/O7uW02peobOh, you couldn’t take some yelling? Remember that time the anti-ACA protesters *spit on* John Lewis?? John. Lewis. Mieke Eoyang (@MiekeEoyang) October 8, 2018Show me on the doll where they hurt you, Mitch. https://t.co/AOC6mMfRNY Kaili Joy Gray (@KailiJoy) October 8, 2018If he didn’t file a police report  or go to the FBI  it didn’t happen. https://t.co/VpT7x14Hoy Kaili Joy Gray (@KailiJoy) October 8, 2018Mitch McConnell actually just said male senators were the real “assault victims” not women.I just had two years of being told grabbing women’s vaginas isn’t really sexual assault by these asshats but now angry women talking back is assault? Pesach Lattin (@pacelattin) October 8, 2018No one plays victim better than a multi-millionaire, who stole a judicial seat from a twice elected patriot like Barack Obama. SMH https://t.co/oBH4GZiOKy Randy #VOTEBLUE (@Randy18888) October 8, 2018“Literally under assault!” Somebody had them physically pinned down on a bed trying to make them do something they didn’t want to do. Cozmo D from Outer Space (@KillDaWabbit2) October 8, 2018pic.twitter.com/6En79Ri0Nd That Longhaired Guy ???? (@DeviestOfMetal) October 8, 2018People were not sympathetic to the GOP Senate leader’s plight.	Liberal
Far-right commentator Tomi Lahren is known for having unpopular and often baseless opinions. Whether she’s comparing the Black Lives Matter movement to the Ku Klux Klan or mocking survivors of school shootings, Lahren’s views aren’t particularly popular.Now, after pop singer Taylor Swift’s instagram post announcing support for liberal politicians in Tennessee, Lahren’s response is gaining traction for all the wrong reasons.Lets be clear, Im not with Taylor and Im not with Kanye. Im not for celebrities that pop off of sh*t they dont understand. Period.— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) October 8, 2018If you hadn’t already guessed it, now may be a good time to mention that Lahren is a fervent Trump supporter, often coming to bat to echo the president’s insults against whoever struck his ire that day.However, Donald Trump had no political experience before the presidency and was considered a reality show star, which makes Lahren’s statement on Taylor Swift and other celebrities popping off “sh*t they don’t uderstand” a tad awkward.Twitter users are pointing this out.The president that you so openly support is literally a celebrity with no political background. Take a seat, Tomato Lasagna.— Samantha (@manthapaige13) October 8, 2018Trump is a celebrity who pops off about sh** that he doesnt understand ALL. THE. TIME. — John Steven Rocha (@TheRochaSays) October 8, 2018This is hilarious, you literally support a reality show celebrity for president. You love it when James Woods pops off and you yourself are nothing but a celebrity using your image to promote GOP propaganda.— Blaine Hardaway (@BlaineWHardaway) October 8, 2018Ahem. You voted for a fake billionaire, fake businessman c-list reality tv star who has bankrupted everything the ever touched and been propped up by laundered mafia cash his entire life.— DeepStateofDisbelief (@notjessagain) October 8, 2018Oh you mean  like the reality star president you adore so much?— Sherri Ruffler (@Sherri_1019) October 8, 2018They also accused Lahren herself of doing the same thing.That's literally you minus being a celebrity— H. Jahanam  #ProtectMueller (@HJahannam) October 8, 2018 pic.twitter.com/34A29JB8Md— LKRA515 (@LKRAOH) October 8, 2018Glad to hear you're resigning.— Thor Benson (@thor_benson) October 8, 2018Users also pointed out other hypocrisies.	Liberal
Former National Security Advisor & U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice on Sunday again teased a possible Senate challengein 2020 to Republican Susan Collins of Maine, which Rice said she will decide on after the November midterms.Rice first hinted at a possible Senate run on Friday with a tantalizing tweet in response to calls for someone to challenge Collins in 2020.Me https://t.co/93qNxN7Ky9— Susan Rice (@AmbassadorRice) October 5, 2018Rice’s interest in a potential Senate run was motivated by Collins’ vote to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Kavanaugh’s nomination was scarred by multiple allegations of sexual assault dating back to his teenage and college years.In an appearance on CNN’sState of the Unionon Sunday, Collins dismissed Rice as a viable challenger:“As far as Susan Rice is concerned, her family has a home in Maine, but she doesnt live in the state of Maine. Everybody knows that.”Speaking at The New Yorker Festival in New York City over the weekend, Rice fired back at Collins, insisting that her ties to Maine “are long and deep,” noting her grandparents’ arrival from Jamaica in 1912 and annual visits to the home she now owns in the Pine Tree State.The last 20-so years Ive been a homeowner in the state of Maine, so its not completely crazy.Rice said she was moved by “a sense of outrage and frustration that somebody who fashions herself a moderate centrist, and somebody who cares for equal rights and LGBT rights andRoe v. Wadeand all of this stuff, could in a very political fashion not just decide to vote for Kavanaugh but do it in a fashion that was quite dismissive of the concerns of many Americans and many Mainers.”Rice added that “it was on that basis that I decided I would think about” running, the Associated Press reported.Collinsput party and politics over her own stated principles” by voting in favor of Kavanaugh, Rice said.I think in a way that I really regret saying, she has betrayed women across this country.”Social media is here for a Rice candidacy.#VoteSusanCollinsOut— Kimberly Jean (@Seattie) October 8, 2018The very qualified, awesome & powerful voices of senior women in America need to step up & start moving on the privileged males occupying senate seats & corrupting American democracy with hyperpartisan corrupt politics.— AsperGirl (@an0nygir1) October 8, 2018Please run.— Linda (@L35404) October 8, 2018https://twitter.com/CameronLMitchel/status/1049297388056264706And many were quick to point out that Collins doesn’t live in Maine either.	Liberal
The idea of the “paid protester” is one Donald Trump floated while he campaigned for President. Trump maintained anyone opposing him at his rallies were simply paid to be there.It is a narrative adapted from conspiracy theorists who dismiss events that do not fit into their world viewlike school shootingsas the work of paid actors. Rather than admit considerable numbers of people vocally opposing him, the President accuses them of being paid to protest.The GOP adopted their party leader’s coping mechanism as well. When protesters demonstrate against their policies or actions, Republican members of Congress and the Trump administration try to delegitimize their constituents’ grievances by claiming they were paid protesters.On Saturday, when the GOP pushed through the confirmation of Trump’s SCOTUS nominee to a lifetime seat on the bench, many people protested in Washington DC and around the country. Senate Judiciary Committee member, Republican Senator John Cornyn of Texas, tried to use the familiar tactic to dismiss the protests as not representing the views of millions of United States voters.He took to Twitter and posted:“Rollcall: 101 people were arrested at the Capitol, many paid and orchestrated to intimidate Senators and their staff.”Rollcall: 101 people were arrested at the Capitol, many paid and orchestrated to intimidate Senators and their staff. Senator John Cornyn (@JohnCornyn) October 6, 2018But Chief Strategist/co-founder of A March for Our Lives, journalist and documentary filmmaker Matt Deitsch responded to Cornyn’s tweet with a few facts of his own. He posted:Rollcall: Senator Cornyn is owned by AT&T – $137,000+ Exxon Mobile – $137,000+ JP Morgan – $116,000+ Goldman Sachs – $92,000+ NRA – $58,000+ Fossil Fuel Lobby – $3,000,000+ John, the only person paid and orchestrated to spread fear is you.Rollcall: Senator Cornyn is owned by…AT&T – $137,000+ Exxon Mobile – $137,000+ JP Morgan – $116,000+ Goldman Sachs – $92,000+ NRA – $58,000+ Fossil Fuel Lobby – $3,000,000+John, the only person paid and orchestrated to spread fear is you. https://t.co/HH8WLuPCea Matt Deitsch (@MattxRed) October 7, 2018Deitsch’s tweet refers to some of the lobbyists and corporate donors that contributed money to Senator Cornyn. Deitsch was not alone in his feedback for Cornyn.Many people responded directly to Cornyn’s tweet. Many called out his message for what it was.Paid. Look at this sitting US Senator, using his platform to spread a baseless conspiracy theory. Shower Cap (@CapShower) October 7, 2018Its the new normal in America. We even have a conspiracy-theorist on the Supreme Court. Its great! Thanks @gop for killing truth and for infecting the SC with a partisan so we no longer have a place where pesky impartial justice can shine. #VoteBlue Lori Ginsberg (@ltgins) October 8, 2018pic.twitter.com/wajAs9NmRV Jane’s World (@jane_epperly) October 8, 2018Yes, its called free speech. ?? WE THE PEOPLE speak out against a partisan hack of a SCOTUS nominee who, as a REPUBLICAN staffer stated a week before #Kavanaugh testified, that it would be a ?? show. No one is paid, stop bigoted conspiracy theory to hide your moral compass. LatinaChic (@LatinaChic1337) October 6, 2018It was the day of the McCain viewing. The REPUBLICAN STAFFERS, not Dems, sounded the alarm on #Kavanaugh . They didnt want him, but you all are ready to place him as SCOTUS. His temperament is ridiculous and he PERJURED HIMSELF UNDER OATH. LatinaChic (@LatinaChic1337) October 6, 2018They were paid & orchestrated huh? Wheres your corroborating evidence? Ya know, that whole Innocent until proven guilty thing yall swore to when pushing thru the completely unfit, unethical, alcoholic to #SCOTUS? Sophie Adler (@poptart9797) October 7, 2018Keep telling yourself that. I’ve never protested until Jan 2017, & I’m 50+. I’ve never contributed to political campaigns until 2018. I’ve been an independent until 2016. I’m full on Democrat. 5th Gen Texan. Can’t wait to give $$ to whoever runs against you in 2020. #TurnTXBlue AnonaMoose (@AnonaMoose58) October 7, 2018Says the man who bows at Trumps feet – the king of hiring actors to cheer for him. Get over yourself and start being a leader for 100% of us. Vicki Ringer (@vickiringer) October 7, 2018“Okay here’s your money. Hold this sign” pic.twitter.com/CrvB4FmB2R jon miwa (@jonmiwa) October 7, 2018What proof do you have that the protesters are paid? That is a favorite charge of Trump – is there any truth to it? @JohnCornyn, how many were paid and who paid them? Is there any truth to you tweet? Patricia Foster (@patfoster698) October 8, 2018You should be made to provide proof of who you think were paid instead of throwing wild accusations around. You are a United States Senator!!!! Darnell Moses (@darnell_moses) October 7, 2018Just because the gop is so used to having to pay anyone to stand up for it (or fill seats for it) that doesnt mean the dems are same. We stand up for our & behind our candidates and our beliefs. Just watch us! ???????????? pic.twitter.com/dn2hlgahmQ Lady Di ???? (@pacercat) October 7, 2018While others echoed Deitsch.	Liberal
President Donald Trump, in a statement to the press, claimed that Brett Kavanaugh, who was recently confirmed to the Supreme Court despite being embroiled in a sexual misconduct scandal, was the target of “a hoax that was set up by Democrats.” The president suggested that Democrats would witness a reckoning next month, on the day of midterm elections.“I hear that now they’re thinking of impeaching a brilliant judge, a man who did nothing wrong, a man who was caught up in a hoax that was set up by the Democrats using the Democrats’ lawyers and now they want to impeach him,” the president said. “I’ve heard this from many people. I think it’s an insult to the American public and I think you’re going to see a lot of things happen on November 6th that have not happened before.”Trump says Kavanaugh was caught up in a "hoax" set up by the Democrats: It was all made up, it was fabricated, and its a disgrace" https://t.co/Zk8Qo0c68a pic.twitter.com/5HtXwHTzLk— The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) October 8, 2018The president continued: “The American public has seen this charade, has seen this dishonesty by the Democrats, and when you mention ‘impeach a Justice of the Supreme Court’ who is a top scholar, top student, top intellect, and who did nothing wrong, and there was no corroboration of any kind, and went through seven FBI investigationshad nothing to do with any of this stuff.”Trump concluded that the allegations against Kavanaugh were “made up,” “fabricated,” and a “disgrace”. His comments were only his latest attacks against Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who in her testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee last month recalled when Kavanaugh assaulted her at a party when they were both in high school. The president had once exercised restraint, calling Dr. Ford a “credible witness.”And he was immediately criticized.Trump is now calling Fords attack a hoax set up by Democrats. If this isn't enough to get you out and register to vote what will it take? I urge you to get registered. You can register online. Will you allow this kind of lying to continue??? #MondayMorning— GreenGateOne (@green_gate_1) October 8, 2018What a disgusting, garbage human. Trump is now calling Dr. Ford's testimony a "hoax"? He cannot make up his mind. How did we ever allow this man to become President? We must turn the Senate back to the Democrats. There has to be someone to check this madman. #TheResistance https://t.co/r0GwbjGo6P— Yuri Nate On 45 (@Yuri_NateOn45) October 8, 2018Trump declares Christine Blasey Ford's attempted rape by Kavanaugh "a hoax" put on by the Democrats. This bullshit has hit extreme, totalitarian levels. Wake up America. He is saying all sexual assault victims are lying. #SexualAssault#LiarInChief#ChristineBlaseyFord— Forrest Brakeman (@forrestbrakeman) October 8, 2018Trump called the allegations against Kavanaugh a hoax, set up by democrats. So they contacted 3 women they never knew exist, & told them 2 give details only a victim would know? #LiarInChief #ImpeachTrump #CriminalInChief #TreasonousTrump #LockHimUp #NotMyPresident #Resistance— Sasafrass452 (@Sasafrass452) October 8, 2018Kavanaugh was confirmed over the weekend amid controversy over thetime-limited investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations against him. There has beenan enormous amount of pushback the FBIs report has received from politicians and the general public alike in light of the limits placed upon the investigation and the knowledge that the bureau declined to interview the witnesses suggested by the attorneys for Kavanaughs accusers.Democrats have heavily criticized the FBI investigation, calling ita sham and a horrific cover-up.The whole thing is sham. Five days to do the investigation,saidSenator Tim Kaine (VA) last week, noting that many witnesses had not been interviewed.Referring to asecure location where senators can read the report for a limited amount of time, he said: And so, here is what they do. There is now a report. One copy. Only one copy thats available in the Senate SCIF. So they dont want 100 senators to read it. Im not allowed to discuss it. The public cant see it. Its a complete sham.The Washington Postreportedthat the FBIs investigation had been highly curtailed and that it had focused primarily on the allegations brought to light by Dr. Ford. The FBI did not interview Dr. Ford, deeming her Senate testimony sufficient.The FBI did interview Deborah Ramirez, who says Kavanaugh exposed himself to her at a Yale fraternity party, but Ramirezs legal team has no indication that the FBI interviewed any of the corroborating witnesses they provided. Nor did the bureau interview Julie Swetnick, who says Kavanaugh was present at a house party in 1982 where she alleges she was the victim of a gang rape.	Liberal
At his rally in Topeka, Kansas, Saturday, President Donald Trump spoke of a bill created by Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California. The bill Trump spoke of is called the Open Borders Bill.He stated:“Every single democrat in the US Senate has signed up for open borders and its a billed called The Open Borders Bill and it’s written by, guess who, Dianne Feinstein. Remember the leaking, right? The leaking Dianne Feinstein.”“If the democrat’s bill ever becomes law, a tidal wave of drugs and crime will pour into our nation like never ever before.”Trump’s supporters echoed his statements online to bolster support for Republican candidates leading up to the November midterms.“Every single democrat in the US Senate has signed up for open borders and its a billed called The Open Borders Bill and it’s written by, guess who, Diane Feinstein. Remember the leaking, right? The leaking Diane Feinstein.” -DJT | #RedNationRising Red Nation Rising (@RedNationRising) October 7, 2018“If the democrat’s bill ever becomes law, a tidal wave of drugs and crime will pour into our nation like never ever before.” -DJT | #RedNationRising Red Nation Rising (@RedNationRising) October 7, 2018Trump went on to state:“Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities that release violent predators and blood-thirsty killers like MS-13 into our communities.”“Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans stand proudly with the brave men and women of ICE, Border Patrol, and law enforcement.”Watch his remarks here. The section where Trump attacks Democrats regarding the nonexistent bill ends at the 42:07 mark on the video.There is a problem with the President’s characterizations of the bill however, namely, that the bill does not actually exist.Trump just making stuff up: “Every single Democrat in the U.S. Senate has signed up for the open borders – and it’s a bill. And it’s called The Open Borders Bill. What’s going on? And it’s written by – guess who – Dianne Feinstein.” Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 7, 2018A review of the bills currently in committee in the Senate as well as those officially submitted or up for other review or vote yields no records of an “Open Borders Bill” or one that does the things Trump claims his fictitious Feinstein bill would do.In addition to Twitter amplifying the President’s false claims of a Democrat created and fully supported “Open Borders Bill,” the Steve Bannon founded Breitbart and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones’Infowars jumped on Trump’s false claims.Both featured stories that included the President’s rally claims as well as adding a few extra details from the nonexistent bill’s contents.Breitbart even made up another nickname for the fictitious Open Borders Bill.Breitbart claimed:“Trump called out Sen. Dianne Feinsteins (D-CA) plan for open borders that every Senate Democrat has announced they support.”“Feinsteins legislation would abolish and end all immigration and border enforcement across the U.S., allowing the 12 to 30 million illegal aliens living in the country and all future illegal aliens to be free to travel back and forth across the hemisphere without enforcement or protections for Americans.”“The plan would also likely ban any and all federal arrests of illegal aliens. The legislation has earned the nickname, the ‘Child Trafficking Encouragement Act,’ as it allows illegal alien smugglers to freely traffic children into the U.S. without the fear of arrest.”Aside from people who don’t fact check or those who believe in conspiracy theories of shadow governments, people did not buy the lies from right wing extremist media or President Trump.And they let him know.	Liberal
After an exhausting week for Democrats with the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, a new poll gives a possible reason for hope at taking back the House.The survey, byWashington Post-Schar School, polled over 2,000 likely voters across 69 battleground districts. Of those 69, only six are currently represented by Democrats, while Republicans hold 63. While Democrats do have a thin advantage (50 percent to 46 percent) over Republicans in these districts, the most surprising finding could be that these states held a 15 point advantage for Republicans in 2016, signaling a monumental nineteen percent shift in Democrats’ favor over the past two years.Our new battleground poll shows a big shift toward Democrats in key House races: 50 percent prefer Dem nominee and 46 percent the Republican. In 2016 same districts favored Republicans by 15 points. https://t.co/foEklYuVO0— Steven Ginsberg (@stevenjay) October 8, 2018Democrats only need 23 of these seats in order to take back the House of Representatives, so fewer than half of the districts polled must swing left in order to give Democrats a solid majority.However, with 2016 still vivid in the collective memory of Americans everywhere, many are hesitant to believe the polls.This battleground poll is encouraging, but Im worried the Russians will help the Republicans steal the midterms, like they did in 2016. What are we doing to prevent this? https://t.co/GYbpWhUCi0— Robert Mann (@RTMannJr) October 8, 2018I don't listen to polls anymore. They screwed us during the last election and caused mayhem. I'm happy that Dem's seem to be in the lead, but we can't get complacent.— SeriouslyFubar (@Srslyfubared) October 8, 2018Because, as we learned in 2016, polls are only assuring if people actually vote. Democrats are scrambling to remind their base of this fact.A good start but don't get complacent. Nothing is a sure thing until after the votes are in. The GOP might still have a few tricks to manipulate voters.— angrybread (@starfly20001) October 8, 2018Narrow Edge in the headline made me think uh-oh. But the polls hopeful. In these 69 battleground House districts63 of them currently GOPDemocratic candidates are preferred over Republicans 50% to 46%. 4 weeks to go. Volunteer. Contribute. Vote. https://t.co/sFr2Wv9Avf— Kurt Andersen (@KBAndersen) October 8, 2018For the next 28 days, please forget about all polls & if there is early voting in your state vote now and vote for Dems. VOTING MATTERS!— Thor (@Hutchinson17Tim) October 8, 2018Still too close to be complacent. Get out there, and VOTE!!!!!!— Terry Nolan (@terryartstuff74) October 8, 2018Perhaps unsurprisingly, one group of voters is leading the way for Democrats in these battleground states.	Liberal
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) revised his rule for Supreme Court appointments in election years on Sunday, telling Chris Wallace at Fox News that he would consider confirming a potential nominee by President Donald Trump in 2020.“We simplyfollowed the tradition in America, which is that if you have a Senate of a different party than the President you dont fill a vacancy created in a presidential [election] year,” the Majority Leader said over the weekend.That’s a far cry from what he claimed two years ago.In 2016, McConnell proudly blocked Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s pick to replace Justice Antonin Scalia.The American people should have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice,”McConnell said at the time. “Therefore, this vacancy should not be filled until we have a new President.McConnell changed his tune on Sunday.When asked by Wallace if he would uphold the rule he implemented two years ago, the 76-year-old Republican said: “we’ll see if there’s a vacancyin 2020.”McConnell claimed that not since 1880 has a Senate of a different party than the president confirmed a Supreme Court nominee.Watch the full segment below:McConnell now implies he will consider a Trump SCOTUS nominee in the 2020 election year, if Republicans hold the Senate in 2018: pic.twitter.com/1mApkA7uVD— Matt Shuham (@mattshuham) October 7, 2018McConnell reiterated this point on CBS’sFace the Nation,but this time host John Dickerson noted that in 1956, a Democratic Senate confirmed William Brennan, who was nominated by Republican President Dwight Eisenhower, to the bench.And in 1968, the Republican leader in the Senate allowed hearings to fill a Supreme Court vacancy under Democratic President Lyndon Johnson.Dickerson’s point was that McConnell was mischaracterizing history to fit his own agenda.Watch the clip below:Here he is making the same point to CBS' John Dickerson: pic.twitter.com/q4aJR0vOpc— Matt Shuham (@mattshuham) October 7, 2018The American people remember exactly what happened in 2016. pic.twitter.com/Zqf7qZWmIv— Rhonda Harbison (@rhonda_harbison) October 7, 2018We wont forget We wont forgive !— Cari Corbett (@CariCorbett100) October 7, 2018The case against Garland was a lie. pic.twitter.com/uOcKK69t07— SO-CALLED Pres Trump (@nylgk) October 7, 2018Garland and the American people were robbed.  The turtle must go.— Jim White (@jimwhitema) October 7, 2018McConnell stole a SCOTUS seat from the voters who overwhelmingly reelected Barack Obama in 2012.— Connie C. Keys (@hotelkeys) October 7, 2018"middle of an election" – It was a whole fucking year before the election.— DDay (@qedigiv) October 7, 2018Twitter users weren’t surprised by McConnell once again changing the rules as he goes along.Of course he will!  Does anyone think that McConnell cares a whit about how callous he is?— Andrew Ingino (@andrew_ingino) October 8, 2018Of course. He is a dishonest douch who changes the rules as he goes along.— Schreib da man (@thereal1791) October 7, 2018Nor were they shocked over his hypocrisy."Disagreement about history" = "alternative facts" from McConnell— JPG Commenter (@jpglion) October 7, 2018It doesnt matter Bidens or anyones conjecture or McConnells interpretation of history since the 1880s. What matters is the Constitution. He did not follow it. He broke the real rules of this country.— Emily Kennedy (@EmilyWKennedy) October 7, 2018Good job #JohnDickerson. Now you know what the Democrats are up against every day. McConnell writes and reads history the way he wants to, not the way it is.— AmericanCitizen (@PJB956) October 7, 2018@Elise_Jordan @SykesCharlie No shame, no honesty no integrity in this party. I would stand with the survivors even if Collins and McConnell pretended to be intimidated. They lie cheat & steal from their own people. Theve been called the American taliban Im not sure I disagree.— runningmyrace (@misscriss48212) October 7, 2018Youre totally right.  Hes making up rules to fit his situation.— Katherine Payne (@Katheri05912282) October 7, 2018Dickerson’s pushback was much appreciated too.	Liberal
Taylor Swift has a reputationno pun intendedfor being notoriously apolitical, much to the chagrin of many fans and commentators over the years who have urged her to use her massive platform to effect positive change. She’s now broken her silence, and it’s to urge people to vote in the midterm elections, which are 28 days away.“In the past Ive been reluctant to publicly voice my political opinions, but due to several events in my life and in the world in the past two years, I feel very differently about that now,” Swift wrote, adding that she “always have and always will cast my vote based on which candidate will protect and fight for the human rights I believe we all deserve in this country.”“I believe in the fight for LGBTQ rights, and that any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender is WRONG,” she continued. “I believe that the systemic racism we still see in this country towards people of color is terrifying, sickening and prevalent.I cannot vote for someone who will not be willing to fight for dignity for ALL Americans, no matter their skin color, gender or who they love.”Swift announced that she would be voting for Democrats in her home state of Tennessee, slamming Republican Marsha Blackburn in the process.“As much as I have in the past and would like to continue voting for women in office, I cannot support Marsha Blackburn,” Swift told her 112 million Instagram followers. “Her voting record in Congress appalls and terrifies me.”Swift said the congresswoman “voted against equal pay for women. She voted against the Reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which attempts to protect women from domestic violence, stalking, and date rape. She believes businesses have a right to refuse service to gay couples. She also believes they should not have the right to marry.”Swift concluded that Blackburn’s record has informed her decision to supportDemocrat Phil Bredesen for the Senate, and also for RepresentativeJim Cooper, a Democrat who’s running for re-election. She also reminded her followers that tomorrow, October 9, is the last day to register to vote in the state of Tennessee and encouraged the others to go to vote.org to find more info pertaining to their state.Bredesen soon thanked Swift for her support.“Im honored to have your support and that of so many Tennesseans who are ready to put aside the partisan shouting and get things done,” he wrote.Thank you for the kind words @taylorswift13. Im honored to have your support and that of so many Tennesseans who are ready to put aside the partisan shouting and get things done. Were ready for it. Last day to register to vote is October 9. https://t.co/6Xd6YyaJCG pic.twitter.com/CatUBkXPKe— Phil Bredesen (@PhilBredesen) October 8, 2018Blackburn has not responded to requests for comment.Arecent Fox News Pollfound Blackburn was ahead of Bredesen48 percent-43 percent; this is inside the poll’s margin of error.Swift has over 112,000,000 followers on Instagram alone, to say nothing of her other social media accountsher endorsement is huge. She was quickly lauded for the move.Ill never forget the day Marsha Blackburn subpoenaed me to Congress to stop me from doing medical research to save the lives of babies with congenital heart and kidney diseases. Im thankful that Taylor Swift opposes Blackburn and has endorsed Phil Bredesen for the U.S. Senate.— Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) October 8, 2018Person: whats your favorite Taylor Swift song?Me: pic.twitter.com/1frdKueK8F— Logan Leavitt (@LoganLeavitt) October 8, 2018I dont have much of an opinion on Taylor Swift, but I know that even her very measured statement today will result in countless threats & attacks on her, and that she did it anyway, so even if its belated, I respect it. Every voice helps.— Anil Dash (@anildash) October 8, 2018Thank you, @taylorswift13. Props given where props are deserved. pic.twitter.com/MRkT85pOiq— Benjamin O'Keefe (@benjaminokeefe) October 8, 2018All jokes aside: What Taylor Swift just did is extremely important. Let's not forget: 53% of white women voted for Donald Trump. Having someone like Swift  who has a MASSIVE fanbase  come out against a Trump darling candidate like Marsha Blackburn is monumental in many ways.— Ashley Alese Edwards (@AshleyAlese) October 8, 2018Others spoke to her critics directly:Dear patriarchy: do you know how badly you had to fuck up to get Taylor Swift to break her career-long silence on politics and come out swinging? Women are taking over. Get used to it.— Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) October 8, 2018if your stance on taylor swift is "too little too late," ask yourself: is "mad about someone endorsing pro-LGBTQ candidates" REALLY the hill you want to die on?— Ali Drucker (@ali_drucker) October 8, 2018	Liberal
People were heartenedFriday morning to see Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska vote No to proceed to a vote on the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh. Murkowski later explained that she did not feel he was “the right man” for the court at this time.On Friday evening, Murkowski further clarified her position before the full Senate stating:“I have a very high standard. I have a very high bar for any nominee to the Supreme Court of the United States.”“I have a very high standard. I have a very high bar for any nominee to the Supreme Court of the United States.” – Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, the only Republican set to vote “no” on Brett Kavanaugh https://t.co/MbI9YBqwbx pic.twitter.com/iBmecPdjMD CNN (@CNN) October 6, 2018Many speculated that Murkowski based her decision on the wishes of her constituents, many of whom, including Native Alaskans, sexual assault survivors as well as the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of her home state, lobbied her to oppose the nominee. Yet it was another Alaska resident who took exception to Murkowski’s decision that made the most waves.Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin took to Twitter to express her displeasure, stating:“Hey [Lisa Murkowski] – I can see 2022 from my house…”Hey @LisaMurkowski – I can see 2022 from my house… Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) October 5, 2018Palin made reference to a claim she made as the late Senator John McCain’s running mate. When asked about her lack of foreign policy experience, Palin stated she could see Russia from her house.Palin’s dig at Murkowski failed to garner much support.YOU were by far the biggest mistake JohnMcCain made in his presidential race. Liz ???? GOTV! (@LizMarie_72) October 6, 2018Hard to believe this yahoo still thinks she should be commenting on ANYTHING. KRock (@KathrynRock80) October 6, 2018Lol remember when you were governor of Alaska and you quit to try make the big bucks down in the lower 48 that was hilarious. Molly Knight (@molly_knight) October 6, 2018??????????????????????????????????????nicely done! Daniel McNeil???? (@SaskDaniel_san) October 6, 2018You’re a hack wrapped inside another hack stuffed in a hack turkey. Hacksaw Jim Duggan wasn’t this much of a hack. Travon Free (@Travon) October 6, 2018pic.twitter.com/aPp2biQdRY Dunebilly Willy (@FredTheDog04) October 6, 2018Some point to a possibility of a rivalry going back years.	Liberal
Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) disheartened Democrats everywhere by announcing she’d be voting to confirm Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh despite multiple sexual assault allegations against him, effectively extinguishing Democrats’ hopes that her crucial swing vote would help block his lifetime appointment.Now, Democrats are already looking for possible senate contenders for Maine in 2020, and one well-qualified contender says she may just throw her hat into the ring.Me https://t.co/93qNxN7Ky9— Susan Rice (@AmbassadorRice) October 5, 2018Susan Rice was the first African-American woman to be appointed as United Nations ambassador when appointed by then-President Obama. Rice was instrumental in promoting pro-LGBTQ agendas on a world stage. In 2013, she ascended to the position of National Security Advisor.Rice also has deep roots in Maine, with her parents graduating from Portland High School after her grandparents immigrated to the area. While President of the Portland Branch of the NAACP, Congresswoman Rachel Talbot Ross said of Rice:Anyone from Maine should be proud because she has such strong Maine roots. She represents the ideal that, as her mother once told her, No dream is too bold to embrace.She may not have anticipated the strong response her tweet got because she later clarified that she was not making any announcements:Many thanks for the encourgement. Im not making any announcements. Like so many Americans, I am deeply disappointed in Senator Collins vote for Kavanaugh. Maine and America deserve better. https://t.co/6oGFTFuO1Q— Susan Rice (@AmbassadorRice) October 5, 2018Regardless, people were still quite into the idea.The moral-  amazing, strong women stepping up.   We can do this-  its a marathon but we can do this— SierraMtnResist (@SierraResistor) October 5, 2018Ill triple what Ive already donated.— KymPossible (@kym_possible23) October 5, 2018Youll get a donation from this Tennessean. — Delilia O'Malley (@DeliliaOMalley) October 5, 2018Please declare yourself a candidate today!! We need women who believe and defend other women. @SenatorCollins has proven over and over again that she is not a believer and defender.— StillTryingToDecide (@Carmen50) October 5, 2018Though many were eager for a showdown of the Susans, it’s uncertain whether or not Senator Collins will put forth another senatorial bid in 2020.	Liberal
Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine shocked fewbut disappointed manywhen she campaigned for President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, on the Senate floor Friday afternoon. Attacking some of the women who accused Kavanaugh of sexual assault, Collins called their allegations “outlandish.”Of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Collins stated:“The facts presented do not mean thatProfessor Ford was not sexually assaulted that night or at some other time. But they do lead me to conclude that the allegations failed to meet the more likely than not standard.”“The facts presented do not mean thatProfessor Ford was not sexually assaulted that night or at some other time. But they do lead me to conclude that the allegations failed to meet the more likely than not standard,” GOP Sen. Susan Collins said. https://t.co/0KkwQcAUoK pic.twitter.com/LAHQRZ8vqE NPR Politics (@nprpolitics) October 5, 2018Many online took exception to Collins’ attacks against sexual assault survivors that she claimed she found credible, but ‘mistaken’ in identifying their attacker.I have a reasonable doubt as to his innocence, don’t you? You would accept a job applicant with felonious allegations surrounding him when there are other applicants that are better suited? GREGORY BORGMAN (@GregB305) October 5, 2018I dont know if Mr. Kavanaugh has a history of assault or if he actually has a drinking problem, but I do know that he might And you shouldnt be on the Supreme Court if you might. You shouldnt be on the Peoples Court if you might. Sometimes might is enough. I/2 Lohubb (@theRealLoSmif) October 5, 2018I mean, I dont want to pet your dog if he might bite me. I dont want to leave you in my house if you might be a crackhead. Im not going to have sex with you if you might have dated Charlie Sheen. -Michael Che nailed it. 2/2 Lohubb (@theRealLoSmif) October 5, 2018However one prominent voice praised Collins for her stance in support of Trump’s nominee. That man in 1992 gave Collins her first political appointment: President George H.W. Bush..@SenatorCollins  political courage and class. I salute my wonderful friend and her principled leadership. George Bush (@GeorgeHWBush) October 5, 2018People had little positive feedback however for the former President’s praise for his protege.That’s why we made you a 1-term president. Mark (@McLovinSJ) October 5, 2018Here’s to supporting corruption and perjury. It’s the Republican platform. RJ Gadz (@RalfusJ) October 5, 2018pic.twitter.com/oYoGfiE39c CMMorgan #NeverAgain (@SoCallls) October 5, 2018The damn truth Betty Maley (@MaleyBetty) October 5, 2018That was NOT courageous. She sold us all out ?? Impudent Cat (@ImpudentCat) October 5, 2018Actually, Mr. Bush, she is not principled. She has a soft demeanor; very lady-like; the way all you old guys like their women to be; but she has no fight inside of her – she defers to men for all the answers. Today, she became the high priestess of gender betrayal. Audrey Regan -feminist not misandrist- (@audreyregan) October 5, 2018Just when I thought you might actually have a redeeming quality.Political courage and class? This is going to continue to rip the country apart for years to come. KellyW (@kellyw8461) October 5, 2018pic.twitter.com/pnBIUr99su TheTimeIsNow (@bellelula3) October 5, 2018 A few referenced allegations the former President himself faced.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders made an unintentional cameo on Murphy Brown Thursday night after the title character charged her way into White House Briefing Room and challenged Sanders on her dishonesty.Brown, played by Candice Bergen, took over a reporter’s turn to speak, which Sanders said was “inappropriate.”“Excuse me, if you really want to talk about what’s inappropriate, how about the way you do your job?” Brown quipped.The role of the White House press secretary is to create transparency in the government and tell the American people the truth, but thats not what happens in this room.”Social media loved it.I LOVED THIS EPISODE! So Great when she called out @pressec as a LIAR and sad state of affairs that none of her fellow reporters took a stand, just like reality. No one calls out these liars to their faces, as they should. #FakePresident https://t.co/HTq26OeJLk via @HuffPostEnt— Space Jesus (@SpaceyJesus) October 5, 2018If we cant even get to the truth, then why are we even here ? Sarah Sanders response to #MurphyBrown Thats a ridiculous question  SPOT ON  FOLKS GAME Set Match pic.twitter.com/08zUBpMcuJ— Mistress_BookHookah (@BookHookah) October 5, 2018I wish somebody would do in real life what Murphy Brown just did on tv. Somebody needs to call out that nothing but lies come from the white house press conferences, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders needs to be held accountable for her daily barrage of untruths. #MurphyBrown— Stacy Hibbs (@StacyHibbs3) October 5, 2018Murphy confronting Sarah Huckabee Sanders was powerful. I loved every single second of it. #murphybrown— Marcus S., the 20th Angry Democrat (@nirvanafanclub) October 5, 2018I want to see ANYBODY drill @PressSec in real life the way we just saw it on #MurphyBrown— Sal Serafino (@SalSerafino) October 5, 2018Question to Sarah Huckabee Sanders: Why do you lie?Damn good question, I say.#MurphyBrown— Emily Miller  (@EmilyRB) October 5, 2018Would love to see a real reporter question Sarah Huckabee Sanders the way #MurphyBrown did tonight!— Belinda Rolicheck (@brolicheck) October 5, 2018Ha! #MurphyBrown calls @PressSec a liar! Oh, how Ive missed you! #DanQuayle #Potato #Potatoe— Therese Mary  (@ThereseMary76) October 5, 2018Perfect, #MurphyBrown letting Sarah Huckabee Sanders have it, the way we would all like to!!— acitrep (@acitrep) October 5, 2018#MurphyBrown crashed a daily press briefing to ask Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Why do you lie? If only Murphy werent a fictional journalist.— DeeDeeDub (@darciedoodle) October 5, 2018"Why do you lie?" #MurphyBrown  someone should really ask that question to Sarah Huckabee Sanders— justaverage1 (@justaverage1) October 5, 2018Yes queen #murphybrown Drag Sarah Sanders through the MUDD— RedhairedMere (@RedhairedM) October 5, 2018I wish Sarah Huckabee Sanders would get asked why does she lie at every press briefing. #MurphyBrown— Mindy Haltiwanger (@westwingwolf) October 5, 2018https://twitter.com/luckystars00/status/1048028347253608448Brown continued her forceful rebuke of Sanders and President Donald Trump’s administration.	Liberal
On Friday, the Senate took a procedural vote to end debate on Brett KavanaughPresident Donald Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Courtsetting the stage for a final vote to confirm or deny Kavanaugh a lifetime position on the SCOTUS Saturday. The vote was 51 for and 49 against.Democrat Joe Manchin of West Virginiawho seeks reelection in Novembervoted yes. However one Republican whose term ends in 2022 voted no.Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska defended her decision to vote against advancing Kavanaugh’s nomination by stating,“In my view, he’s not the right man for the court at this time.”Murkowski announced she would also vote no on Kavanaugh’s confirmation to a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court. The Alaska Senator was one of three Republicans under heavy pressure to vote no on Kavanaugh.The other two Senators, Jeff Flake of Arizona and Susan Collins of Maine, voted yes on advancing the nomination. Flake announced he would also vote yes on Saturday.Collins made her final position clear later Friday when she announced she also would vote yes.Senate votes to end debate on Kavanaugh nomination. Tees up Saturday confirmation vote The vote was 51-49. Manchin, Collins and Flake were yeasMurkowski was a no. Chad Pergram (@ChadPergram) October 5, 2018Murkowski spent the time before the vote speaking with constituents.Murkowski spent HOURS yesterday in private meetings with Alaskan women opposed to Kavanaugh, including sexual assault survivors. https://t.co/JhaurF7PQR Garrett Haake (@GarrettHaake) October 5, 2018A large voting block for the Alaska Senator to consider are Native Alaskans. The Iupiat, Yupik, Aleut, Eyak, Tlingit, Haida, Tsimshian and a number of Northern Athabaskan cultures call Alaska home.Native votes helped Murkowski win as a write-in candidate in 2010 after she lost the Republican primary to a tea party candidate.Alaska Native groups made clear their stance on Brett Kavanaugh. For them, he was a definite no for a lifetime position on the Supreme Court.Advocates for Alaska Natives had concerns with the judges record on climate change, voting rights and fishing rights. Tribal communities who rely on subsistence fishing in protected federal waters feared the conservative judge could destroy their way of life.Heather Kendall-Miller, an Alaska Native and an attorney with the Native American Rights Fund, said:“This would be a death knell to us in Alaska, absolutely. If this goes down, Alaska will be in a state of chaos when the fishing season begins. There will be lots of civil disobedience. It will be explosive.”Murkowski and Maine Senator Collins also received pressure for Women’s rights groups. Both Senators claim to be pro-choice and pro-equality.Women’s advocacy groups do not see Kavanaugh as supporting the rights of women.Reaction to Murkowski’s vote was mostly favorable.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s hopes of receiving the Nobel Peace Prize were quashed on Friday after the committee gave the award to Dr. Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murad “for their efforts to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and armed conflict.”Trump had hoped to win the Nobel for his efforts to denuclearize North Korea and stabilize the relationship between dictator Kim Jong Un and the rest of the world.Those ambitions ended early Friday morning when the Prize was given to two activists who have been fighting to end the warlike weaponization of sexual assault.2018 Nobel Peace Prize laureate Denis Mukwege is the helper who has devoted his life to defending victims of war-time sexual violence. Fellow laureate Nadia Murad is the witness who tells of the abuses perpetrated against herself and others. #NobelPrize pic.twitter.com/MY6IdYWN1e— The Nobel Prize (@NobelPrize) October 5, 2018Some Republicans banked on Trump winning “in recognition of his work to end the Korean War, denuclearize the Korean peninsula, and bring peace to the region.”“If Donald Trump gets the Nobel Peace Prize, liberals all over the world would jump out of buildings,” Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) once said.Though Trump and his Republican allies boastfully promoted Trump as a frontrunner for the Prize, they have been noticeably silent since the announcement was made.Social media, however, has been buzzing with joy at the news that Trump – whose own history with women includes affairs, paying off porn stars, and numerous allegations of sexual misconduct – was rejected in favor of people fighting to end sexual brutality.The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to two leading figures in the movement to end sexual violence as a weapon of war.Remember when #MAGA thought Trump was going to get the Nobel Peace Prize for getting a picture with Kim Jong Un?    RT if you remember! pic.twitter.com/lChHDFAwMj— Travis Allen  (@TravisAllen02) October 5, 2018Poetic justice:  Warriors in the battle to eradicate sexual violence beat sexual violence promoter (Kavanaugh, Roy Moore, etc) and habitual misogynist @realDonaldTrump to win the @NobelPrize@Morning_Joe https://t.co/1Wu3cTevTf— Col. Morris Davis (@ColMorrisDavis) October 5, 2018If I'm not mistaken, the Nobel Peace Prize committee are trolling Trump and Kavanaugh.— Jason Hickel (@jasonhickel) October 5, 2018The perverse paradox cannot be more stark: Almost at the same time as the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to anti-sexual violence activists Nadia Murad and Denis Mukwege  the tone deaf, sexual assault-friendly Trump-GOP is set to confirm sexual assaulter Brett Kavanaugh.— Bill Madden (@activist360) October 5, 2018Twitter praised the two winners, including a tribute from Hillary Clinton.Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murads work to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war has brought awareness to a horrific practice and helped survivors get the care they need. My heartfelt congratulations to both for their well-deserved Nobel Peace Prize.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 5, 2018Scores of people echoed Clinton’s sentiment.@womensmarch – Today the Nobel Prize was awarded to two fantastic people for there hard work against sexual abuse! I'm in tears — Elisabeth Brndbo (@elibethbo) October 5, 2018My thanks to the Nobel Committee for recognizing the courage and leadership of Nadia Murad and Dr. Denis Mukwege in addressing the scourge of sexual violence as a tool of war. We must stand together against this abomination.— Alex Bugailiskis (@bugaila) October 5, 2018Congrats on addressing #sexualviolence in #conflict & crisis by awarding #NobelPeacePrize to @NadiaMuradBasee & @DenisMukwege! The #RedCross #RedCrescent Movement @Federation works hard to prevent & respond to #SGBV – we use this great training: https://t.co/BlayiVHKG9 #HCBerlin— Inclusion Rider (@TinaTinde) October 5, 2018	Liberal
The Trump administration has officially admitted what few conservatives dare: Climate change is real. Not only is it real, its really bad, says the governments new 500-pageenvironmental impact statement on its proposed loosening of vehicle emissions rules. If nothing is done to limit the amount of carbon dioxide humans put into the atmosphere, it says, the planet willwarm a shocking seven degreesby the end of this century. That means many of the people alive today will witness a rapid decline in conditions, and the generation of children born in this century will see unfathomable environmental destructionand soon.A major climate report, issued on October 8 by The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), details an accelerated timeline for a litany of catastrophic impacts of climate change. If greenhouse gas emissions continue at the current rate, the report says, the atmosphere will warm up by as much as 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Celsius) above preindustrial levels by 2040. The report was written and edited by 91 scientists from 40 countries who analyzed more than 6,000 scientific studies.Scientists have long said a two-degree rise would be catastrophic, bringing about the worst-case scenarios of heat waves, drought, flooding of coastal areas, the collapse of agricultural systems, final destruction of the ocean reefs and other sea life, and pandemics. The Paris Climate Agreement has a goal of limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degrees. But the Trump administration is OK with thisso much so that it sees no reason to even attempt to stop it.In addition to withdrawing from the Paris Climate Agreement, Trump is pushing for increased coal burning. Eliminating coal is a key part of keeping carbon emissions at a manageable level.This report makes it clear: There is no way to mitigate climate change without getting rid of coal, said Drew Shindell, a climate scientist at Duke University and an author of the report.The U.S. policy is buried in the Draft Environmental Statement the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration issued to justify why it is freezing Obama-era fuel-efficiency rules for cars and light trucks. The argument? We are doomed anyway, so lets keep polluting. According to the administrations own estimates, thevehicle rule would put 8 billion additional tons of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere this century, more than a years worth of total U.S. emissions, the government estimates. The report also notes that if the world takes no action to curb emissions, current atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide would rise from 410 parts per million to 789 ppm by 2100.The amazing thing theyre saying is human activities are going to lead to this rise of carbon dioxide that is disastrous for the environment and society. And then theyre saying theyre not going to do anything about it, said Michael MacCracken, who served as a senior scientist at the U.S. Global Change Research Program from 1993 to 2002.Even some conservatives are alarmed. Christine Todd Whitman, who served as the Environmental Protection Agency administratorduring the George W. Bush administration, says that the Obama-era rules are within our technological ability to achieve. From undermining and ignoring established science, to rolling back lifesavingpublic healthprotections, it’s become abundantly clear that this administration has no intention of upholding the core mission of the EPA, she said. What’s worse, even the EPA’s own Scientific Advisory Boardis questioningthe adequacy of scientific justifications used to roll back the clean car standards, particularly what this move could mean for climate change, air pollution, as well as impacts on Americans’ health and safety. This rollback also ignoresthousands of pages of researchshowing that the current standards are achievable, protect public health and reduce air pollution. The EPA should make decisions based on science  not willfully ignoring the work of scientists.The Trump administration says to do something would require substantial increases in technology innovation and adoption compared to todays levels and would require the economy and the vehicle fleet to move away from the use of fossil fuels, which is not currently technologically feasible or economically feasible.Some societies argue otherwise: Sweden has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2045, through government initiatives that invest in green energy and technologies. Germany is aiming to be carbon neutral by 2050. In 2017, the UK saw its carbon emissions drop to levels last seen in 1890, due to decreases in fossil fuel use. Bhutan is not just carbon net-zero, its a carbon sink, making it net-negative  it alleviates more carbon emissions than the amount its own society creates by protecting its forests and planting new trees.Theres also the fact that the effects of climate change are also not economically feasible. The authors of the UN report estimate that climate change will cost $54 trillion in this century as the planet warms 2.7 degrees, and $69 trillion as it reaches 3.6 degrees. Governments will struggle to deal with destructive storms, food shortages, political unrest, mass migration of human populations, disease, and other effects of climate change. This assumes that governments will remain intact amid such deteriorating conditions. Scientists say there is still hope for the planetif we act fast. The UN scientists say that it is technically possible to achieve the rapid changes required to avoid 2.7 degrees of warming. Greenhouse pollution must be reduced by 45 percent from 2010 levels by 2030, and 100 percent by 2050. Coal as an electricity source would have to drop from nearly 40 percent today to between 1 and 7 percent by 2050. Renewable energy such as wind and solar, which provide about 20 percent of the worlds electricity, would have to increase to 67 percent. However, it is politically unlikely that any of this will happen.According to anew study published in the journal Earth System Dynamics, humanity is reaching a tipping point beyond which it will become almost impossible to keep Earth’s temperature from rising 2 degrees Celsius. That study calculates that if the world’s governments don’t initiate a transition to clean energy sources by 2035, there will be no hope.“In our study we show that there are strict deadlines for taking climate action,” Henk Dijkstra, a professor at Utrecht University in the Netherlands and one of the study authors,said. “We conclude that very little time is left before the Paris targets [to limit global warming] become infeasible.”	Liberal
Just ahead of a crucial senate vote on Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation, the American Bar Association announced in a letter to Senate Judiciary Chairman Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Ranking Member Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) that the association would be reexamining the “well-qualified” ranking it bestowed on Kavanaugh.The letter cites that the ABA is concerned with Kavanaugh’s temperament following the September 27th testimony he gave to the Senate Judiciary Committee regarding sexual assault allegations lobbied against him by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.The ABA Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary has sent a letter to  @senjudiciary, regarding the re-opening of their evaluation of Brett Kavanaugh. You can read the full letter here: https://t.co/CLoFWsxbjo pic.twitter.com/U1Zx04qBFS— American Bar Association (@ABAesq) October 5, 2018The letter states:“New information of a material nature regarding temperament during the September 27th hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee has prompted a reopening of the Standing Committee’s evaluation.”Republican senators in favor of Kavanaugh’s confirmation have long cited his ABA rating to vouch for his qualifications as recently as today on the Senate floor.The American Bar Association has determined by a unanimous vote that Judge Kavanaugh is Well Qualified for the position of Associate Justice of the Supreme Court  its highest possible rating. Leading Democrats have called this the Gold Standard.— Leader McConnell (@senatemajldr) August 31, 2018Minutes ago, Grassley cited the ABA's rating as a reason to confirm Kavanaugh https://t.co/oxBHTL2UsG— Chris Megerian (@ChrisMegerian) October 5, 2018With one of the pro-Kavanaugh talking points now in limbo and unlikely to be resolved before the final vote, some are asking if Republicans still feel comfortable with the latest development.This morning, on the floor of the Senate, McConnell relied on the ABAs good recommendation of Kavanaugh. Now that theyve taken this highly unusual step, will he still be willing to rely on their assessment? https://t.co/z0dpDsEtI9— Joyce Alene (@JoyceWhiteVance) October 5, 2018McConnell giving his windup speech on Kavanaugh ahead of this morning's procedural vote, calling Kavanaugh "incredibly well-qualified* and well respected**."*ABA is reassessing its Kavanaugh judicial rating**Three women have publicly accused him of sexual misconduct— Jennifer Bendery (@jbendery) October 5, 2018@JeffFlake: Will ABA changing #Kavanaugh's rating be "big" enough for ya? #VoteNo to Kavanaugh.Don't live up to your family-name. https://t.co/xWFeSjJPzS— DemsWin (@dems_win) October 5, 2018What’s more, this isn’t the first time the ABA has been skeptical of Kavanaugh’s temperament.	Liberal
In news that only 2018 could deliver, President Donald Trump boarded Air Force One on Thursday with toilet paper dangling off his shoe.White tissue fluttered under Trump’s left heel as he exited The Beast and ascended the staircase onto the presidential jet following a rally in Minnesota.In other news: Today, Trump boarded Air Force One with toilet paper stuck to his shoe.I CAN'T BREATHE RETWEET! pic.twitter.com/dI9zs5AxC0— StanceGrounded (@_SJPeace_) October 5, 2018While the source and ply of the paper may forever elude us, the jokes have not, and let’s be totally honest here… we need this. It’s been a helluva month this week.uh oh shoulda used charmin ultra strong pic.twitter.com/qOwh0TYVyJ— m i t h (@ManInTheHoody) October 5, 2018I SO needed this today!  — Starrling's Nest #ProtectMueller  (@starrling3) October 5, 2018“Shhhh! Nobody tell him.”Had this been a political cartoon it would be heavily criticized. I cannot think of a more perfect way for the universe to show how much of a doofus trump is. Can you hear the Secret Service agents in the background snickering? Shhhh! Nobody tell him! — Jason (@IronClockworks) October 5, 2018Narrator: Nobody told him.Trump boarding AF1 today with toilet paper stuck to his shoe. Trump has no friends.  pic.twitter.com/BbMU66uwNV—  FERRARI SHEPPARD (@stopbeingfamous) October 5, 2018Think about this for a second – the president is constantly surrounded by handlers. One of them had to have seen this. None of them said anything.Imagine being that hated that the people who are supposed to be the most loyal to you see it and don't tell you that you have toilet paper on your shoe.They all saw it like come on LOL!— StanceGrounded (@_SJPeace_) October 5, 2018It goes to show that everyone around him HATES HIM.  No one said a damn thing to him, knowing that would be caught on film.— Deborah Macgillivray (@Scotladywriter) October 5, 2018The significance of this is the fact that all of his security staff and aides will have seen this, yet none of them told him.— Joe Dowling (@JoeGrowling) October 5, 2018Here's the thing about nobody telling Trump he has toilet paper stuck to his shoe: do you think that brittle little man is going to thank you, if you pointed it out? Do you think he'd take that as a mark of your respect for him?— Alexandraah! Erin (@alexandraerin) October 5, 2018Here’s a version with crisper audio. You’re welcome.Wait, we managed to get a closer mic recording of Trump with toilet paper stuck to his shoe  pic.twitter.com/AFwfK6BTIv— Pauline Pantsdown (@PPantsdown) October 5, 2018And here it is with some music.Trump's toilet paper walk, with music. pic.twitter.com/rpnK81F50N— Lauren Werner  (@LaurenWern) October 5, 2018pic.twitter.com/2G3Tv03wgU— Jena Lowndes (@JenaAusmerica) October 5, 2018Naturally, theCurb Your Enthusiasm music had to be remixed in, and it’s perfect. Gorgeous. Tremendous remix, the greatest in our history.Curb Your Toilet Paper. pic.twitter.com/bBSb06j7mF— Lauren Werner  (@LaurenWern) October 5, 2018We got your puns covered too.All the toilet paper in the world couldn't wipe that asshole.— Carl Davies (@orwell1947) October 5, 2018Pootus.— Heather  #JusticeForJamal (@BlaisBlais5) October 5, 2018TPOTUS— driftglass (@Mr_Electrico) October 5, 2018I wish he'd flush himself out of our lives..— Richard De Leon  (@downwritemental) October 5, 2018#TrumpsTickerTapeParade— EisenNears (@EisenNears) October 5, 2018Cant spell TrumP without TP— John carpenter (@GoSidGo) October 5, 2018When ur full of sh&t you always have to have toilet paper available— jason rankin (@elvispeacock04) October 5, 2018He could but he won’t.Can you spare a square?— Olaf, Councel Viceroy (@ShortSale50) October 5, 2018Some people aren’t convinced it’s toilet paper.That small piece of paper on his shoe…? Thats not toilet paper. Thats the FBI investigative report on Kavanaugh.— scarletb151 (@susanarn151) October 5, 2018Pretty sure it was meant to be a distraction from the Kavanaugh investigation outrage.— NotAnAlien (@JustABitAlien) October 5, 2018The piece of toilet paper on Trumps shoe! https://t.co/AC6u7tKXCO— Keystone Thinker! (@slkatusa) October 5, 2018They'll just lie and say it was an ice cream wrapper. A two scoop wrapper.— A4n6guy (@4n6guyphilly) October 5, 2018Others saw more symbolic meaning.	Liberal
Russian state media is backing Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court. Hamilton 68, an organizationwhich tries to track Russian influence operations on Twitter, recorded considerable activity from Russian accounts pertaining to the Kavanaugh nomination.The Hamilton 68 dashboard, which attempts to track Russian influence operations on Twitter, is charting a lot of Kavanaugh activity right now. https://t.co/lEIzRgORs4 pic.twitter.com/jPgFpEwKyn— Dustin Volz (@dnvolz) September 28, 2018Hamilton 68 follows accounts that are clearly connected with Russia and support other Russian propaganda campaigns beyond the ones that have been and are active within the United States. The organization employs blind models, which are used when participantsare likely to change their behavior if they know they are being scrutinized.Here’s a look at the latest content tweeted by Russian bots and trolls, per Hamilton 68’s dashboard: New Knowledge, an organization with similar objectives, noted last week that the hashtag #KavanaughHearings remained a popular topic for a “Russia-linked disinformation” network as Kavanaugh and Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who alleges Kavanaugh assaulted her during a high school party in the 1980s, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee.The #KavanaughHearings continue to be a popular topic for a Russia-linked disinformation network we're tracking at @NewKnowledgeAI – driving support for the nominee and attempting to discredit Dr. Blasey Ford. https://t.co/WflbSsFV5I pic.twitter.com/bgOXIhHXDQ— Jonathon Morgan (@jonathonmorgan) September 28, 2018Kremlin propagandist Dmitry Kiselyov has made appearances on Russian state television which blame the opposition to Kavanaugh’s nomination on a conspiracy on an insurgency of “malignant feminism.”Guess what stands in Kavanaughs way? Certainly, the disease of malignant feminism used to destroy promising careers and eliminate political opponents,” he said in response to Trump’s claim earlier this week that the accusations of sexual misconduct leveled against Kavanaugh constitute “avery scary time for young men in America.”And when Kavanaugh said that the allegations from Julie Swetnick, who recalls Kavanaugh was present at a house party in 1982 where she alleges she was the victim of a gang rape, are a “joke” and a “farce,” Kiselyov told his viewers:The case against Brett Kavanaugh sounds like a joke.Vitaly Milonov, an ultra-conservative lawmaker from Putins United Russia party, has expressed similar sentiments, characterizing feminists as “monkeys” and “witches.” He has advocated for the state to both forcefully imprison feminists and mandate psychiatric treatment.Recently,Russias Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that U.S.-Russia relationsare the worst in history,” but clarified that the relationship between Trump and Russian leader Vladimir Putinis very constructive and positive.The relationship between Russia’s ruling class and their support of Trump is based on “a convergence of interests,” writes Julia Davis forThe Daily Beast, noting that:Karen Shakhnazarov, a prominent film director and an influencer who makes regular appearances on Russian state TV, has explained that by destroying the European Union, imposing tariffs upon China and hastening the destruction of the American empireTrump is lightening Russias load and giving it breathing space.Mikhail Remizov, President of the Russian think-tank, Institute for National Strategy, has said that the reasons for the Russians to support Trumps election were not based on the desire to gain a friend in the White House. He argued that the real motivation is twofold: Trumps restructuring of Americas global financial agreements distracts the West from Russia, thereby allowing it more room to maneuver. The second reason is that Trump is forming the new global ideology with respect to protectionist economic policies, restrictions on immigration and fostering skepticism towards global jurisdictions, such as the International Criminal Court,all of which is exactly what Russia wants.Russian Political Scientist Sergey Mikheev added thatTrump does not care about values, concerning himself only with money and interests. Tatyana Parkhalina (President of the Association for Euro-Atlantic Cooperation)cautioned the pro-Kremlin talking headsnot to confuse Trumps values (or lack thereof) with those of the United States. Trump is not America  thankfully. They are not one in the same.	Liberal
In aWashington Post op-ed,Charles Ludington, Lynne Brookes, and Elizabeth Swisher, whoattended Yale University from 1983 to 1987 with Supreme Court nominee Brett M. Kavanaugh, explain why they oppose his nomination, disputing his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee in the process.“We were college classmates and drinking buddies with Supreme Court nominee Brett M. Kavanaugh,” the three wrote, noting that they “each asserted that Brett lied to the Senate by stating, under oath, that he never drank to the point of forgetting what he was doing.”“We said, unequivocally, that each of us, on numerous occasions, had seen Brett stumbling drunk to the point that it would be impossible for him to state with any degree of certainty that he remembered everything that he did when drunk,” they continued, noting that they “drank too much in college as well” and can attest that Kavanaugh did, contrary to what he’s stated, drink to the point of “blacking out.”The three former classmates say they’ve received “numerous angry messages accusing us of attempting to ruin a mans life because of his drunken antics as a college student,” that they’ve had their lives and those of their families disrupted; that one of them has had news reporters camp out in front of their home; that “we have received large amounts of hate mail, including threats of violence”; that they “have lost friendships”; and that “The work servers of one of us were hacked.”They conclude:None of this is what we wanted, but we felt it our civic duty to speak the truth and say that Brett lied under oath while seeking to become a Supreme Court justice. That is our one and only message, but it is a significant one. For we each believe that telling the truth, no matter how difficult, is a moral obligation for our nations leaders. No one should be able to lie their way onto the Supreme Court. Honesty is the glue that holds together a society of laws. Lies are the solvent that dissolves those bonds.All of us went to Yale, whose motto is Lux et Veritas (Light and Truth). Brett also belonged to a Yale senior secret society called Truth and Courage. We believe that Brett neither tells the former nor embodies the latter. For this reason, we believe that Brett Kavanaugh should not sit on the nations highest court.Ludington, who cooperated with the FBI’s investigation into the sexual misconduct claims against Kavanaugh brought to light by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, who alleges Kavanaugh assaulted her at a high school party in the 1980s, recently came forwardto say that Kavanaugh was a frequent drinker, and a heavy drinker who was belligerent and aggressive while under the influence.On one of the last occasions I purposely socialized with Brett, I witnessed him respond to a semi-hostile remark, not by defusing the situation, but by throwing his beer in the mans face and starting a fight that ended with one of our mutual friends in jail, he said in a full statement published inThe New York Times.Authorities have already begun to investigate that incident, which took place at a Connecticut bar in 1985.In the New Haven, Connecticut, police department report, a man named Dom Cozzolino said Kavanaugh hadthrown ice on him. Cozzolino also said that Kavanaughs friend Chris Dudley had thrown a glass that hit him on the ear.Last month, Brookes said that the comments Kavanaugh made in his Fox News interviewthat he had been a pious virgin who did not engage in drunken or lewd behavior with his fraternitydo not match the classmate she remembers.Hes trying to paint himself as some kind of choir boy, said Brookes, whoat one point lived on campus with Deborah Ramirez, who says Kavanaugh exposed himself to her at a fraternity party and recalled seeing Kavanaugh drunk at a fraternity event.You cant lie your way onto the Supreme Court, and with that statement out, hes gone too far. Its about the integrity of that institution.	Liberal
Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) announced on Thursday that she will not vote to confirm Brett Kavanaughto the Supreme Court.“I will be voting against confirming U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court,” Heitkamp said in a personal statement on Twitter.My statement on U.S. Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh: pic.twitter.com/exZcK78JtF— Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (@SenatorHeitkamp) October 4, 2018“After doing my due diligence and now that the record is apparently closed, I will vote against his confirmation,” Heitkamp said, adding that her vote to deny Kavanaugh a seat on the nation’s highest court is part of her effort to stand up for women and survivors of sexual assault.“Our actions right now are a poignant signal to young girls and women across our country,” Heitkamp said. “I will continue to stand up for them.”Heitkamp cited the testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, who last month publicly accused Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct at a house party in the 1980’s. Heitkamp said through Ford, she “heard the voices of women I have known throughout my lifewho have similar stories of sexual assault and abuse.”Heitkamp later echoed the sentiments in an interview for ABC News, saying:“This isn’t a political decision. If this were a political decision for me, I certainly would be deciding this the other way. I can’t get up in the morning and look at the life experience that I’ve had and say yes to Judge Kavanaugh.”There are few tougher people than my colleague, @HeidiHeitkamp. Let's have her back in a tough fight this November https://t.co/ZQ5jy7uDg9pic.twitter.com/JVVPRZ3HsN— Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) October 4, 2018New York’s Kirsten Gillibrand said Heitkamp’s decision “is a vote for her conscience and for her state, one she made regardless of any attacks she’ll face.”.@HeidiHeitkamp just announced shell vote against Judge Kavanaughs confirmation. This is a vote for her conscience and for her state, one she made regardless of any attacks she'll face. Heidis a fighter. Shes fearless.— Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) October 4, 2018“We need her to stay strong in this race, defeat Cramer and help protect the future of the Supreme Court,” Gillibrand added.And while our fight to stop Kavanaugh isnt over yet, if Heidis opponent, Kevin Cramer, were in the Senate, it could be. We cant lose Heidis voice and vote. We need her to stay strong in this race, defeat Cramer and help protect the future of the Supreme Court.— Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) October 4, 2018A grateful public made shared their appreciation.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.— Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) October 4, 2018Good on you Senator— Ike Barinholtz (@ikebarinholtz) October 4, 2018Woman of valor— Donna Brazile (@donnabrazile) October 4, 2018	Liberal
Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) demonstrated his respect for women Thursday afternoon by shooing away survivors of sexual assault and telling them to “grow up.”Hatch’s stunning dismissal of concerned women occurred as he was waiting for an elevator in the Capitol. Several women were attempting to ask the 84-year-old Republican why he won’t listen to women.“Why aren’t you brave enough to talk to us and exchange with us?” one woman can be heard saying. Hatch waved his hand as if to shoo the woman away.It did not go well.“Don’t you wave your hand at me,” the same woman fired back. “I wave my hand at you.”Hatch then crowed, “when you grow up I’ll be ready” as he slithered into an elevator.The women in the crowd were not pleased. “How dare you talk to women that way?” the most vocal of them shouted. “How dare you dismiss women?”Another woman called Hatch a “f*cking old piece of sh*t” as he smugly smiled and made another shooing motion with his hands.Watch the jarring encounter below:Classy @OrrinHatch telling a group of survivors to grow up while he literally shoos them away with his hand. pic.twitter.com/MGEf0OSkWy— Scott Hechinger (@ScottHech) October 4, 2018Social media blew up over the staggeringly disrespectful display, however, Hatch’s behavior didn’t really come as a shock to anyone.Fuck you @OrrinHatch – you dont deserve an ounce of respect. I dont care how old you are or what position you hold. You disregarded Anita Hill and now youve done the same thing again. https://t.co/ZRYpKZv8cm— Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) October 4, 2018vote them all out https://t.co/282Ejstlhl— Oliver Willis (@owillis) October 4, 2018Being sexually assaulted makes people grow up. It takes away an innocence they never get back.— Sumi Folz (@sumesumes) October 4, 2018Not surprising in the least— Coffeelvr717 (@coffeelvr7171) October 4, 2018Disgusting. But not surprising— Coffeelvr717 (@coffeelvr7171) October 4, 2018https://twitter.com/moorehead_agnes/status/1047948020069949440https://twitter.com/LifeOnaPlate/status/1047948849287847936He's an 85 year old child— Paradigmeyes (@paradigmeyes) October 4, 2018Senator Hatch , youre a pig . An old white, withered , cruel , self serving , insensitive, greedy , tone deaf pig ! #VoteThemAllOut— Charlie Adler (@charlie_adler) October 4, 2018Drop dead, Orrin. Then burn in hell.— Charles Song (@CS70) October 4, 2018Shame on Orrin Hatch, Mia Love, and Mike Lee.— Brewskeey (@Brewskeey) October 4, 2018Time for a nice bolt of lightening to strike this washed up old man. Get on it God!— Cooptroop820 (@cooptroop820) October 4, 2018What a cold-hearted bastard.— Kathy Wagner (@KathyWa00666462) October 4, 2018Hatch has been one of the most vocal critics of Julie Swetnick, who last month alleged that Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh was present while she was gang-raped at a house party in 1983. Swetnick is one of three women accusing Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct who have been all but dismissed and degraded by Senate Republicans.Hatch launched a slut-shaming Twitter attack on Swetnick Tuesday afternoon after a man contacted his office with graphic details about Swetnick’s sex life.A Utah man named Dennis Ketterer reached out to the Hatch office this week with information about accuser Julie Swetnick, and her allegations against Judge Kavanaugh.His full statement made under pentaly of felony to @senjudiciary can be found here –> https://t.co/0dSwAHlnVe pic.twitter.com/YSbuONkA5W— Senator Hatch Office (@senorrinhatch) October 2, 2018On Thursday, the Salt Lake City Tribune published a scathing editorial calling Hatch’s criticisms of Swetnick “despicable.”	Liberal
The concept of family is fundamental to every society. Yet for many people, geographical or emotional distance may make family unavailable when needed. Estrangement and abuse unravel many family bonds. Death leaves voids in families that can never be filled. In Japan, however, a remarkable business makes it easier for families to feel complete: you can hire a replacement family member to fill in for the absent person.Companies have sprung up to provide friends and family  for a fee. Rental fathers can be hired to walk a bride down the aisle, impersonate a father for children being raised by single-mothers, appear at public events, or provide fatherly advice. Men or women can be hired to play the role of romantic partner for family events for gay people who arent ready to come out. Other rental people simply provide a few hours of conversation or companionship. The relationships can be lengthy and ongoing. Ishii Yuichi, CEO of Family Romance, impersonates a father for a child being raised by a single mother, and considers it a lifetime role. If the client never reveals the truth, I must continue the role indefinitely, he says. If the daughter gets married, I have to act as a father in that wedding, and then I have to be the grandfather. So, I always ask every client, Are you prepared to sustain this lie? Its the most significant problem our company has.Clients choose the physical characteristics and personality type they wish for in their rental family member, and the actors and actresses cultivate those qualities to perform as needed. The cost: about U.S. $50 an hour. Yuichi says his business fills a void in peoples lives and balances society.One client hired women to occasionally play the roles of his late wife and estranged adult daughter. The actresses did simple things like cook and eat dinner with the client, and then watch television with himproviding the companionship his real family could not. In this way, the service provides emotional comfort to lonely people. Ossan Rental service, founded by Takanobu Nishimoto, employs 78 men to play the traditional role of wise older man. Ossan is an informal way of saying “ojisan,” which means “uncle” or “middle-aged man.” Historically, most men would have ultimately played this role in their own family and social circles, but societal changes, values that have shifted to focus on youth, and the fading cultural power of older men since the Great Recession has dissolved the natural role of the ojisan. Yet people clearly sense a need for that male presence: Nishimotos company fulfills about 10,000 orders a year for a rental ossan. About 70 percent of his customers use the service for conversation, Nishimoto said, while the other 30 percent request “manual” help, such as lifting boxes. About 10,000 people have applied for a job with his company. About 80 percent of his clients are women. “The old community has been destroyed,” Sasaki said. “and a lot of people are finding they don’t belong anywhere and they have no place to ask for help or advice.”Occasionally, people will use the services to hire someone else to take verbal abuse, issues apologies, or stand in for unpleasant experiences. A specialty some services offer is crying man, in which the actor can display the emotion the actual person cannot. Rent-a-family services say they dont provide sexual companionship. (Other entities provide those services.) Instead, these rental services fill emotional needs.	Liberal
Need help getting to the polls on Election Day? Uber’s got you covered. The rideshare service unveiled its “Get to the Polls” initiative on Thursday, which through an in-app feature will assist people in finding and getting to their polling stations.“On Tuesday, November 6, anyone in the U.S. will be able to quickly find their polling place and book a ride to go votewith just a few taps in the Uber app,” Uber said in a statement on their website. Users will be able to locate their polling station by entering their address.The goal is to make voting simple and accessible to everyone who wishes to participate in the democratic process.“To help the millions of Americans who cite transportation barriers as the reason they dont vote,” Uber wrote, “well be partnering with#VoteTogetherandDemocracy Worksto provide free rides to the polls.”You drive the vote, well get you to the polls. Learn more about how were helping people show up on Election Day. https://t.co/ftLaWCEhZ7— Uber (@Uber) October 4, 2018People are cheering.To help get Americans with transportation challenges to the polls on Election Day, @Uber is partnering with #VoteTogether and @demworks to provide free rides to the polls.Pretty cool.— Nelle R Pierson (@NellePierson) October 4, 2018Way to go UBER!!!!— Cln1011 (@christine_nehls) October 4, 2018Uber is adding a button to help people find their polling places on election day and will give free rides to people who say transportation issues prevent them from voting  pic.twitter.com/eoxFMBQwdX— AJ+ (@ajplus) October 4, 2018We need more of this, especially in more challenging communities. Good for them.  https://t.co/QtRXMbXXdf— BluCollar Guy (@BluCollar_Guy) October 4, 2018https://t.co/p8qchPqxWSVery cool!#Uber #Vote #Election #USA— Dr. Marion Thorpe (@MarionThorpe) October 4, 2018https://t.co/RDXGXMzPOtWay to go.— Lonnie Hicks (@Lnnie) October 4, 2018Uber is also helping people register to vote by teaming up with When We All Vote“to provide our customers with easy-to-use voter registration tools.”Additionally, Uber says that between now and November 6, the company will be”hosting voter registration drives at more than 125 U.S. Greenlight Hub locations around the countryto help register as many eligible voters as possible before their states deadline.”Uber’s announcement follows a similar campaign launched by its biggest competitor Lyft, which in August said it would offer 50 percent off rides to polling places on Election Day, including free rides to “underserved communities that face significant obstacles to transportation.”Uber’s dedication to helping people vote magnifies the importance of a depressing New York Times report about voter participation that was published on Wednesday.	Liberal
Asked for his thoughts on the official report from the FBI regarding its time-limited investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, Senator Robert “Bob” Menendez (D-NJ) was as direct as he could be.“If that’s an investigation, it’s a bullshit investigation,” he said. “The reality is that is not a full and thorough investigation.Evidently, the Republicans who gave the direction to the FBI of what could be investigated was extremely limited.”“You don’t, you know, I hear a lot about a lack of corroboration and you don’t get corroborating information if you don’t talk to corroborating witnesses and that obviously didn’t happen here,” he continued. “And so I’m amazed, I’m amazed for the highest court in the land that this is the type of report the FBI produces.”Just read the FBI report on Kavanaugh – if thats an investigation, its a bullshit investigation. pic.twitter.com/9D8oeVMEoU— Senator Bob Menendez (@SenatorMenendez) October 4, 2018Menendez knows a thing or two about FBI investigations: In 2015, he pleaded not guilty to federal corruption chargesrelated to alleged favors he did for a Florida ophthalmologist and the gifts he received from him in return. (The charges against him were later dropped by the Justice Department.)That hasn’t stopped many from agreeing with his assessment, considering the enormous amount of pushback the FBI’s report has received from politicians and the general public alike in light of the limits placed upon the investigation and the knowledge that the bureau declined to interview the witnesses suggested by the attorneys for Kavanaugh’s accusers.The Senate said they wanted a full FBI investigation, but ultimately the decision lies with White House counsel Don McGahn. He alone is the reason the investigation didn't include any of the witnesses who could corroborate the accusations. He and his boss are despicable.— InfiniteLight (@snkfinances) October 4, 2018Maybe Trump has been right all along: the #FBI is compromised — only in his favor! #FBIInvestigation— Mark Schroeder (@schroederwrite) October 4, 2018Thank you!  The number of women being sexually assaulted in today's society is already far too high, and the GOP now want white men to be allowed to do it w/impunity.  Thank u for fighting for us.— kittycatsrule (@kittycatsrule) October 4, 2018Bob Menendez is all of us. https://t.co/9ugAm7m5mM— Elizabeth King (@ElizabethKing) October 4, 2018Thank you Sen. Menendez for pointing out this important fact: You can't get corroborating evidence if you don't talk to witnesses who might be able to corroborate the accusations. Failing to do so makes for a very incomplete investigation.— LoriUKBay (@LoriUKBay) October 4, 2018Democrats have heavily criticized the FBI investigation, calling ita “sham” and “a horrific cover-up.”“The whole thing is sham. Five days to do the investigation,” said Senator Tim Kaine (VA), who noted that many witnesses had not been interviewed.Referring to asecure location where senators can read the report for a limited amount of time, he said: “And so, here is what they do. There is now a report. One copy. Only one copy that’s available in the Senate SCIF. So they don’t want 100 senators to read it. I’m not allowed to discuss it. The public can’t see it. It’s a complete sham.”“It’s obviously a cover-up,” said his colleague EdMarkey (MA).“The Trump White House, working with the Republican leadership in the Senate, have deliberately circumscribed this investigation.”The FBI did not interview Brett Kavanaugh or Cristine Blasey Ford. "It's obviously a cover-up," says Sen. Ed Markey. "The Trump White House, working with the Republican leadership in the Senate, have deliberately circumscribed this investigation" pic.twitter.com/IVeQs1wJJ3— CNN Newsroom (@CNNnewsroom) October 4, 2018After reading the report, Senator Dianne Feinstein (CA), the leading Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee,claimed that the investigation was incomplete.What we reviewed today … it looks to be a product of an incomplete investigation that was limited perhaps by the White House, she said.She also took to Twitter to say that Democrats’ “previous concerns about Judge Kavanaugh’s truthfulness have also not been assuaged by this investigation” and reiterated that it is “impossible” to take the investigation seriously when so many corroborating witnesses were not interviewed.Republicans have declared there wasnt a hint of misconduct. Based on our briefing & review of documents, despite a clearly restricted investigation, that IS NOT true. Our previous concerns about Judge Kavanaughs truthfulness have also not been assuaged by this investigation.— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) October 4, 2018It is impossible to take this investigation seriously when so many key witnessesincluding Judge Kavanaugh and Dr. Fordwere not interviewed and constraints were imposed on what was asked and who was spoken to.— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) October 4, 2018	Liberal
At a recent rally in Mississippi, President Donald Trump addressed the testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford regarding her sexual assault allegations against Trump’s Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh.The president mocked Ford’s inability to remember some details from the night of the assault, which allegedly occurred in the early 80’s.Trump said:How did you get home? I dont remember. Howd you get there? I dont remember. Where is the place? I don’t remember. How many years ago was it? I don’t know. What neighborhood was it in? I dont know. Wheres the house? I dont know. Upstairs, downstairs, where was it? I dont know. But I had one beer. Thats the only thing I remember.'”After national outrage, the White House insisted that Trump was not “mocking” Ford, but simply stating facts.Of course, by any measure, Trump was mocking Ford’s testimony, which CNN acknowledged with this bizarre headline:“WHITE HOUSE DENIES TRUMP WAS MOCKING KAVANAUGH ACCUSER AFTER TRUMP MOCKS KAVANAUGH ACCUSER”pic.twitter.com/tC9p0mORqM— erica orden (@eorden) October 3, 2018The reporter featured in the shot, Jim Acosta, lamented how often these types of headlines prove necessary at this moment in American politics.We have to use these kinds of chyrons a lot. https://t.co/ZhhnbkRJLy— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) October 3, 2018Many seemed to agree.The trump era in one chyron— WriteOn (@writteon) October 3, 2018Todays @cnn chyron is my new forever mood. pic.twitter.com/CMBLcrYElH— Beth Cain (@bethhhcain) October 3, 2018That is what it should say— John Klote (@JKlote) October 3, 2018This chyron is pic.twitter.com/9f2v1EtY1M— Andrew (@AndrewSnarks) October 3, 2018OMG CNN. Please let us interview your chyron artist. pic.twitter.com/wpeBmzZKO8— Amy Argetsinger (@AmyArgetsinger) October 3, 2018Though Trump mocked Ford for inability to remember certain details, experts have pointed out why that’s normal and may even make Ford more credible.	Liberal
Brett Kavanaugh, the embattled Supreme Court nominee accused of sexually assaulting Dr. Christine Blasey Ford and several other women, has not yet been confirmed to the Supreme Court. But you can already pre-order a commemorative coinwith his name on it. The coin celebrates “constitutionalism,” has a 24-karat gold finish, and also commemorates Justice Neil Gorsuch, who was confirmed last year. And this coin can be yours for, oh, a measly $175.Just check out this listing from the White House Gift Shop:The coin doesn’t exist yet, but to many, its creation represents the Trump administration’s hubris, and it’s opened both Kavanaugh and the administration to harsh criticism.No thanks, I dont need any memorabilia commemorating an abuser of women.— Leigh Crosby (@teaandmagnolias) October 4, 2018Can you play devils triangle with these coins?? @FBI https://t.co/IAX5rEJNjO— Nico Kroeker (@Nicokroeker) October 4, 2018Well this is excellent bullshit right here…guess this might be hard proof that the FBI evidence was a scam.  Here is the White House shitting RIGHT IN YOUR FACE, America!!!   https://t.co/9ScgyhnHz5— hurricane maleesha (@m_kovnesky) October 4, 2018The White House courted controversy earlier this year after President Donald Trump was scheduled to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in May. The U.S. military released a commemorative “challenge” coin to commemorate the meeting, the first between a North Korean leader and a U.S. president, even though the occasionhad not technically happened yet. Then Trump canceled the event, rendering the coins an odd artifact as the two nations traded jabs for several weeks until they eventually met in June to amixed reception. (Oh, and you can still buy those Trump-Kim coins by the way.)Oddly enough, the White House Gift Shop is not affiliated with the White House at all. It was first created by President Harry Truman, and it existed under different names, includingthe White House Flower Fund and the White House Police Benefit Fund, and the money from sales of presidential memorabilia and other souvenirswould go to the families of Secret Service members who were injured or killed while on duty.As writer Rebecca Jennings notes in a piece forVox:As recently as a decade ago, the gift shop appears to have been run by an organization called the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division Benefit Fund, but in 2011 it signed a contract with a company called Giannini Strategic Enterprises to run the shop on the funds behalf. When the fund liquidated itself in 2013, the gift shop was wholly transferred to Giannini.Its run by a man named Anthony Giannini, who did not respond to repeated requests for an interview. Hes currently the CEO of the White House Gift Shop and runs both businesses out of an office in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. And no, theres not an actual store, in the White House or anywhere else, where you can buy the stuff shown online.She also explains just how the business is allowed to operate despite not being affiliated with the White House:So how is Giannini allowed to run a company with the very misleading and official-sounding White House in the title? Well, at first, he couldnt. According to Talking Points Memo, when Giannini first applied to trademark the name at the US Patent Trademark Office, his request was rejected on the pretty straightforward argument that it gave the false impression that it was part of the White House.But in a follow-up application, he argued that because the gift shop was founded by President Harry Truman, that it was indeed tied to the White House. And thus, the Trademark Office issued the trademark, which is why youll see a lot of very tiny trademark symbols proudly displayed on the companys website.	Liberal
Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), a crucial vote in the effort to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, said on Thursday that she is satisfied with the FBI’s expanded background check into allegations of sexual assault that have dominated the judge’s nomination process.Collins told CNN‘s Jeremy Herb that the FBI report detailing its probe into the accusations appears to be a very thorough investigation.”SIREN: Susan Collins: "It appears to be a very thorough investigation. @jeremyherb— Manu Raju (@mkraju) October 4, 2018Though Collins did not indicate which way she intends to vote, Herb called the pro-choice Republican’s remarks “hugely significant.”Collins plans on reading the full report sometime today, however, the Senator appears to be convinced that the FBI conducted a fair and thorough investigation.“Im going to go back to personally read the interviews,” Collins said.“She believes it has,” CNN’s Manu Raju added. “Now, what does that mean for her vote? We don’t have final answer on that yet.”Collins’ assessment drew immediate backlash on social media as constituents promise to hold her accountable when she runs for reelection in 2020.With Collins and Flake both satisfied with the investigation, its hard to see them voting against the nomination since that would be an obvious red flag to raise right now. Kavanaugh appears, at the moment, headed to the Supreme Court— Manu Raju (@mkraju) October 4, 2018Oh trust me, WE WILL REMEMBER THIS!— Debra – Siren Sword of Truth (@scottygirl2014) October 4, 2018SHES Complicit. Maine please vote her out.— Vera Gen (@Strugachik) October 4, 2018Vote them out.— Roger Rodriguez (@RogerRod916) October 4, 2018as Usual @SenatorCollins is shown how she doesnt listen to her Constituents  #VoteHerOut— Brenda A Duarte (@BrendaADuarte1) October 4, 2018Which is interesting given the fact that she said she hasn't fully read it. @SenatorCollins is just another partisan hack. #VoteHerOut— Tim Silver (@simtilver) October 4, 2018In August, voters in Maine launched a crowdfunding campaign to support a potential Democratic challenger to Collins in 2020 if the Senator votes to confirm Kavanaugh. So far, the CrowdPAC has raised more than $1.8 million.Twitter isn’t letting Collins forget about it.Define thorough. Cant wait for the money collected to be given to her democratic challenger – already almost $2m— Episcopalifem Queen Vinegar Tits  (@Episcopalifem) October 4, 2018Thanks for the update! I will donate again. Lets make sure she sees the latest total!— Just Julie (@julie_resister) October 4, 2018@SenatorCollins $1.8 million and growing https://t.co/Cm0tPESYpO— Maureen Weber (@BustHerBluth) October 4, 2018Then @SenatorCollins, vote No. If it's thorough then you'll see the perjury. If you vote yes you'll be voted out and remembered for the downfall of democracy.— Steve B. (@SteveWithaB) October 4, 2018People are also blasting Collins for calling the FBI’s investigation “thorough” after reports show the Bureau was strongarmed by the White House into ignoring key witnesses and refusing to interview Kavanaugh or his first accuser, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.No, its NOT. For Gods sake, Senator. Even if it was a thorough investigation, Kavanaugh perjured himself over & over & over again to the Senate. He lied multiple times & was thoroughly PARTISAN!Doesnt that count anymore? @SenatorCollins— VForVictory (@VforVictory1) October 4, 2018Three words she uses, "very," "thorough," and "investigation," don't mean what she uses them to mean.But the dead giveaway is that there is only one copy of the report from this "investigation," and it is in a SCIF, so it cannot be leaked to the public.This is a sham.— Stephen Perry (@StephenOfTroy) October 4, 2018Susan Collins was always going to vote to confirm Kavanaugh. The farce of an FBI investigation that didn't even interview Dr. Ford or Kavanaugh as suggested by the GOPs own prosecutor, Rachel Mitchell, was to provide cover for those who always wanted to vote yes.— KD (@Fly_Sistah) October 4, 2018@SenatorCollins No, it is not a thorough investigation. It is a sham meant to appease the demands from those who oppose Kavanaugh. He does not have judicial temperament or restraint and is not impartial. VOTE NO!— Mirimgreg  (@MirMGreg) October 4, 2018In what universe was that investigation thorough? These people cant even lie well. At least own up to your decision.— JustinaLynn (@JustinaLynn525) October 4, 2018"A very thorough investigation"?????? What planet are you living on, Susan?— It's Bat Boy! (@EptesicusFuscus) October 4, 2018A investigation that only took 2 and a half days to complete isn't a thorough investigation.— Bruce (@Yanks2018) October 4, 2018Collins isn’t the only swing voting Senator eager to put the Kavanaugh matter to rest.	Liberal
Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s momentous testimony against Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh last week took the world by storm, with many believing her to be sincere and straightforward, brave in spite of fear. Now,Timeis putting her words at the forefront of its story in a cover by San Francisco artist John Mavroudis.And, as it turns out, a thousand words is worth a picture.The latest Time Magazine cover features Christine Blasey Ford's portrait composed of quotes from her testimony by San Francisco artist John Mavroudis https://t.co/oYDFRitj6g pic.twitter.com/gAQIO1g4m0— Axios (@axios) October 4, 2018Timeposted an animated version of the cover to its own Twitter feed.TIMEs new cover: How Christine Blasey Fords testimony changed America https://t.co/qkorZpK2k1 pic.twitter.com/BzD3GpdZbV— TIME (@TIME) October 4, 2018Mavroudis described the process he used to create the stunning image:This particular process is like putting a jigsaw puzzle together, but with an infinite number of possibilities. I started with an image of Ford and then drew the words in where they might be appropriate. The memory quotes would be attached to her forehead area, and the quotes about wanting to help I placed on her hand. The hand could be seen as welcoming, but also deflecting. Its a fascinating process to watch the face take shape, while hoping that youve captured the essence.Twitter users are spellbound, with many believing the image to embody the #MeToo movement and women’s rights at this moment in American society.@TIME cover is very powerful and captures the very essence of the desire for belief & change in America. A nation divided…we can be the change!#BelieveSurvivors #HerLastingImpact Bravo Time Magazine  pic.twitter.com/62smYdRIlB— Tris Resists (@TrisResists) October 4, 2018https://twitter.com/karinbartimole/status/1047833090507329536@TIME Magazine left a powerful timestamp on the history by uncovering stories of women and a powerful social movement with a single cover. Tesla and Ford are indeed true American brands.— Bishop (@churchpost) October 4, 2018I want to take part in a @TIME magazine cover brainstorm. This is phenomenal. pic.twitter.com/VbFoQ5OQyB— KLIMOVSKI (@KLIM0VSKI) October 4, 2018Ford’s testimony captivated the nation and furthered the dialogue around sexual assault. After Dr. Ford testified, calls to the National Sexual Assault Hotline increased by 201 percent. The same words used to create the Timecover were also the ones that inspired other survivors to come forward.Brenda from Missouri calls C-SPAN"I'm a 76-year-old woman who was sexually molested in 2nd grade. This brings back so much pain. Thought I was over it but it's not. You will never forget it. You get confused & you don't understand it but you never forget what happened to you." pic.twitter.com/uCgroeQ4B5— CSPAN (@cspan) September 27, 2018The TIMEarticle that inspired the cover gives Ford’s testimony its due.	Liberal
Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) tore into President Donald Trump on the Senate floor Wednesday night in an impassioned speech defending the #MeToo movement and blasting Trump’s mockery of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.Sasse became emotional as he spoke about victims of sexual assault that he knew personally and that the #MeToo movement has been a “good thing” for women and that it #MeToo is an important and needed development” that has helped womenexpose their abusers.The #MeToo moment is a complicated movement, Sasse said, but it has been a very good thing. Far too often many girls and women have been told that theyre meat, theyve been told this in word and indeed that they are parts to be consumed rather than Gods children to be cherished and respected and partnered with.Sasse then shifted his focus to Trump, who mocked Ford during a rally earlier this week.How did you get home? I dont remember. Howd you get there? I dont remember. Where is the place? I dont remember. How many years ago was it? I dont know, Trump joked at a Mississippi campaign stop on Tuesday.The Senator said Trump “cannot lead us through this time” because “it’s who he is.”“We all know that the President cannot lead us through this time,” Sasse said of Trump. “We know that hes dispositionally unable to restrain his impulse to divide us. His mockery of Dr. Ford in Mississippi was wrong, but it doesnt really surprise anyone. Its who he is.Sasse also said Trump was wrong to suggest that Ford should have immediately contacted law enforcement if her claims of sexual assault were true.Sasse criticized the Senate’s rush to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court in light of the multiple allegations of sexual abuse that have surfaced against the judge.The #MeToo movement has elevated our consciousness and our awareness of sexual assault and sexual violence against women. And we must not give back the important ground in this movement by authorizing this media circus to stand in for generations of stories of tragic pain. And no matter how much cable news screams this, it would be an egregious offense against the cause of women to call this one up or down vote a proxy for the validation and validity of claims of sexual violence. We can do better than that, and we must do better if were actually going to care about women, and if were going to serve our constituents in this body.Watch the whole speech below. Sasse’s remarks about Trump occur at 13:40:One question is on everyone’s mind: how will Sasse vote?Soooo does @BenSasses floor speech mean hes voting no?— Symone D. Sanders (@SymoneDSanders) October 4, 2018I am one of hundreds Ben Sasses college classmates who signed a petition urging him to vote no. Two of us are going to DC tmrrw to deliver it to him, talk to him about #MeToo & sexual assault. He has declined to meet w us so far, but we remain hopeful. https://t.co/ur7B6aF5UP— Melissa Bender (@mbenderphoto) October 4, 2018Hey can someone text me when Ben Sasse says hell be voting no on Kavanaugh? My number is -— Kaili Joy Gray (@KailiJoy) October 4, 2018We dont need Ben Sasse to cry, we need him to vote no. Why are men always so emotional.— scarinscafe (@erinscafe) October 4, 2018Burn up the phone lines. At a minimum, make calls to these Senators and implore a NO VOTE on Kavanaugh. Susan Collins (202) 224-2523Lisa Murkowski (202) 224-6665Jeff Flake (202) 224-4521 Joe Manchin  202-224-3954Ben Sasse  (202) 224-4224 pic.twitter.com/vXmDDk6QJP— Terri (@MyBeachChair) September 29, 2018Maybe Ben Sasse will actually stand up to Trump and vote no on Kavanaugh. But so far hes done nothing to warrant placing my trust in him.— Spooky Sean Kent (@seankent) October 4, 2018Unless @BenSasse intends to vote no on Kavanaugh, all his words are empty and should be treated as such, even if the press fawns all over it— Adam Blickstein (@AdamBlickstein) October 4, 2018Ben Sasse maybe a no vote? Unlikely, but I would give him so much respect if he does vote no. https://t.co/eHwp0ogwxk— Aaron (@TheSarcasmShow) October 4, 2018So Ben Sasse will be voting no then? Crying on the Senate floor and saying Trump has no leadership and still voting yes undercuts every thing Ben Sasse just said.— Marshall Brigham (@BrighamMarshall) October 4, 2018@maddow If Ben Sasse wanted Trump to nominate someone else besides Kavanaugh, then he will vote NO on K, right?— Mary Worringer (@Tootshilda) October 4, 2018What say you, @BenSasse? Are you going to do the right thing and vote no?— Cat Woman (@catwomn) October 4, 2018Ben Sasse could just vote no if he has problems with this nominee. He and several Republicans could force Trump to pick a less controversial judge that wouldn't hurt them in November, but no that would be the smart and the right thing to do.— Marshall Brigham (@BrighamMarshall) October 4, 2018All this followed Sasse bemoaning the “politicized culture” in Washington and said he had advised the president against nominating Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.	Liberal
After veteran’s cartoonist Chris Britt’s cartoon depicting embattled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s daughter sparked a harsh backlash, Chelsea Clinton also came to Kavanaugh’s daughter’s defense.“If you cant make your point about Judge Kavanaugh, whatever it may be, without bullying his kids, its not worth making,” Clinton wrote.Please leave Judge Kavanaughs daughters alone. They do not belong in your cartoons, jokes, or skits. If you cant make your point about Judge Kavanaugh, whatever it may be, without bullying his kids, its not worth making. https://t.co/ABp0JolqbN— Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) October 3, 2018The cartoon in question depicted Kavanaugh’s daughter, 10-year-old Liza, praying for God to “forgive “my angry, lying, alcoholic father for sexually assaulting” Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, who last week testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee about a sexual assault she alleges Kavanaugh committed against her at a high school party when they were both in high school.To Whom it May Concern at .@ILTimes:I would like to formally lodge a protest at the disgraceful sketch by your cartoonist, Chris Britt, depicting the 10 year-old daughter of Judge Brett Kavanaugh. It contravenes every standard of decency in our society. Please remove it. pic.twitter.com/WWpI2f9NVA— vbspurs (@vbspurs) September 30, 2018The cartoon was widely criticized for breaking an unspoken but oft-respected rule that individuals not lampoon the children of political figures if they are minors, but responses to Clinton’s defense were noticeably mixed, with some pointing out that it was Kavanaugh who claimed during his testimony that Liza had said to her mother that we should pray for the woman.”Kavanaugh is the one who used his kids as political props, and it is his comments that are being mocked.— offbrandsodafam (@jwebbwarren) October 3, 2018I agree but it should be noted that Dr Ford was 15 when she was sexually assaulted. She also wanted to be left alone.— Delilia O'Malley (@DeliliaOMalley) October 3, 2018Chelsea, I remember how you stuck up for Barron Trump and the Obama girls, when people were making jokes about them. Thank you for being genuinely consistent on the topic of not using political children as comment fodder.— vbspurs (@vbspurs) October 3, 2018Kids are innocent. Bullying them because you dont like their parents is morally grotesque.— Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) October 3, 2018He was wrong to bring her up in his hearing, essentially using her as a shield, but that doesn't mean any one else should follow suit. Leave kids out of it.— Braying Boozehound Jeanine Pirro (@porter_debby) October 3, 2018Britt has defended the cartoon, saying that it had been Kavanaugh’s decision to mention his daughter in public testimony which precipitated its creation in the first place.Kavanaugh is the one who ushered his own daughter into the national conversation by telling us his story,” Britt said.He added: The cartoon is not about his daughter  its about Brett Kavanaughs possible heavy drinking, his anger and his possibly sexually assaulting Doctor Ford.Thats what we do in this business, Britt said. I based my cartoon on [Fords] testimony  I happen to believe what she said. Her testimony was credible and thoughtful, and thats why I went where I did.Critics objected, however, and multiple people, like theperson below, called out theIllinois Times for publishing it.An Illinois Times cartoonist (Chris Britt) sinks into the bowels of depravity with this cartoon featuring Brett Kavanaugh's ***10-year old daughter*** as editorial chum for like-minded Illinois Slimes subscribers. pic.twitter.com/FBtGEPtqZy— Elizabeth Blumenthal (@QuantumGrl) October 1, 2018But the publication soon had to clear the air: TheTimes clarifiedthat while Britt is a regular freelance contributor to the paper, the newspapers name should not have appeared in the cartoon. Britt said he routinely includes his affiliationin his cartoons per an agreement with the paper, even if his works are only published by his syndicate.	Liberal
The National Council of Churches denounced the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court on Wednesday, saying in a statement that Kavanaugh disqualified himself from this lifetime appointment and must step aside immediately.The organization, which Jack Jenkins of Religion News Services says “represents 38 denominations and faith communities encompassing roughly 45 million people,” offered a list of reasons they feel Kavanaugh’s nomination should be immediately withdrawn.Interest in the story has crashed their website, but they posted the statement on Twitter:Unusually high traffic has shut our website down.  Here is our statement calling for the withdrawal of Judge #Kavanaugh. pic.twitter.com/r1vsGmqMFK— NCCCUSA (@ncccusa) October 3, 2018And added:NEW: National Council of Churches tells me they are adding the following paragraph to their statement calling on Kavanaugh to withdraw:We are deeply disturbed by the multiple allegations of sexual assault and call for a full and unhindered investigation of these accusations." https://t.co/hTeZpuzJF1— Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) October 3, 2018The NCC said Kavanaugh “exhibited extreme partisan bias and disrespect towards certain members of the [Senate Judiciary Committee] and thereby demonstrated that he possesses neither the temperament nor the character essential for a member of the highest court in our nation.”Last week, Kavanaugh refused to answer questions during his testimony before theSenate Judiciary Committee and blamed the sexual assault allegations stalling his nomination on a calculated and orchestrated political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President Trump and the 2016 election.He also blamed the Clintons.Fear that has been unfairly stoked about my judicial record, Kavanaugh said. Revenge on behalf of the Clintons. and millions of dollars in money from outside left-wing opposition groups.The NCC accused Kavanaugh of uttering several misstatements and some outright falsehoods during his testimony. “All citizens must be expected to speak truthfully under oath,” the group said, “however, this is especially true for anyone who seeks a seat on the Supreme Court.”The organization also referred to Kavanaugh’s judicial record as “troubling.”“Judge Kavanaughs extensive judicial and political record is troubling with regard to issues of voting rights, racial and gender justice, health care, the rights of people with disabilities, and environmental protections, the NCC wrote. This leads us to believe that he cannot be an impartial justice in cases that are sure to come before him at the Court.Many on Twitter cheered the news:Its about time true Christians stand up against Kavenaugh!— Margaret M Mcclary (@MargaretMMccla3) October 3, 2018Finally! Thankful my Christian brothers and sisters who try to follow Christ and not a politician are speaking out. Thank you so much @billyeichner for retweeting this. It means so much to me. — Jessica Buchanan (@jesssssicab) October 3, 2018This is a big deal.— Geoffrey Gabriel (@gbgabriel1971) October 3, 2018Well done!!— Strain Asylum (@BrighidsForge) October 3, 2018Alleluia— Pelly (@pellicott1) October 3, 2018This is not the first instance of opposition that Kavanaugh has faced from the NCC and other groups.	Liberal
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) said that he and the city will seek to collect President Donald Trump’s unpaid taxes after an extensive New York Times report revealed that Trump’s personal wealth is directly related to decades-long tax avoidance schemes.On Tuesday, the mayor instructed state and local tax agencies “to immediately investigate tax and housing violations and to work with NY State to find out if appropriate taxes were paid.”Ive directed NYCs Department of Finance to immediately investigate tax and housing violations and to work with NY State to find out if appropriate taxes were paid. https://t.co/AVCJ0VWH3T— Mayor Bill de Blasio (@NYCMayor) October 3, 2018DeBlasio continued his pledge on Wendesday.Its clear to me that there are real ramifications right now to what has been disclosed, either potential violations of law, or in cases where the statute of limitations has ended that there may be very serious civil penalties that can be applied by both the state and the city, de Blasio said. The city of New York is looking to recoup any money that Donald Trump owes the people of New York City, period.Hizzonor laid blame to city and state tax collectors for failing to properly scrutinize the Trump’s finances. De Blasio also said that if Trump’s tax history were more thoroughly vetted, he would not have gotten elected.There was a good-old-boy network that obviously Donald Trump played like a fiddle and evaded the kind of regulation and investigation and prosecution he should have received many times over, de Blasio said. He finagled and paid his way to being able to escape the kind of scrutiny and prosecution he deserved. And honestly, if a lot of people in New York state had done their jobs he would never have been president of the United States.The taxes Trump and his family allegedly skirted their way out of payingcould be going to veterans, could be going to seniors, could be going to kids,” the mayor added.Though the statute of limitations has run out on any possible criminal proceedings, civil cases may be pursuable under state lawifevidence is found supporting willful tax evasion.New York City deserves justice.Get our tax dollars returned to NY. We work hard giving welfare to soybean farmers in the mid west. The monies you can get back from the Trumps tax crimes can go to many programs in need in our own state.— Cat Escalera (@EscaleraCat) October 3, 2018Bring the criminal down. Make that unindicted co-conspirator pay.— Geoffrey Sorensen (@GSorensen) October 3, 2018Throw the book at em!— TOMDUKE (@tduke168) October 3, 2018How glad I am that you are on the case.— President Harry S Truman is madder than hell again (@PresHarryTruman) October 3, 2018Thank you!— Jennifer Piotti (@jenpiotti) October 3, 2018Good work!— Gabriel Byatt (@GabrielByatt) October 3, 2018Thank you. I  NY!— Tracy Resists  (@1DentalHyGenius) October 3, 2018#LockThemAllUp #TrumpCrimeFamily— FED THE F*CK UP~Dumptrump (@Dumptru34140609) October 3, 2018Thank-you!— TraceyOlson (@TrAcEyOLuvsU) October 3, 2018THANK YOU!— Monique McClain (@moeforme) October 3, 2018Thank you!  We need to know Trump will be investigated!— Pamela Dubsky #BoycottNRA (@pameladubsky49) October 3, 2018Thank You— Lisa's Point Of View  (@LHarrisPhoto) October 3, 2018Take him down— Brienne of Snark (@BrienneOfSnark_) October 3, 2018Some people, however, are wondering why it has taken so long for Trump and his ilk to get caught.I cant get over how not only DJT got away with this for so long , but his entire family got away with it for decades!! Surely the NY government had to have known something since most citizens knew he was a fraud— becky lou (@ruatwitt) October 3, 2018What took you so long— Remiperry (@RemiPerry) October 3, 2018Oh please.  NY knew this was happening when it did but his dad was a major political donor.  I hope you do find some criminal intent but look at all the real estate developers while you are at it Bill.— Jay Gorman (@GormanJay) October 3, 2018What I want to know is why wasn't this investigated years ago— Traci (@Tracisoper1) October 3, 2018I hope you also look into WHY it wasn't caught sooner. Why didn't auditors question outrageous bills, with the requested rent increases. Or did someone look the other way? AND does it still go on in NYC? Too many middlemen in NYC take mark up for nothing as it is.— Lesley Gayle (@LGMnow) October 3, 2018Why did it take 20+ years to now uncover all of this? You mean to tell me that nobody knew about this until yesterday? Come on.— Craig Heicklen (@craighike) October 3, 2018Shortly after the Times story broke on Tuesday, The Washington Post reported that New York’s state tax agency is considering opening an investigation into Trump’s alleged tax evasion, which the Times described as “outright fraud.”	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders on Wednesday accused Democrats of playing politics with Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the SupremeCourt.Sanders blasted Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and other Democrats for “throwing the kitchen sink” at Kavanaugh with “no regard for the process, decency, or standards,” adding that Democrats have been:“literally trying to undercut the voice of the American people who elected Donald Trump”Yes, President Donald Trump was elected in 2016, but it was not because more people voted for him. The Electoral College decided the 2016 election, not the “voice of American people,” which by a margin of nearly three million, chose Hillary Clinton.Social media wasn’t about to let Sanders forget that.The American people voted for Clinton.— Alt Sam Brownback (@AmbSamBrownback) October 3, 2018lest ye forget the majority of the American people did not elect Donald Trump— Scary from Boogle (@kashoobs) October 3, 2018You mean the voice of the electoral college— Barbara Rizzi (@Brizzicpa) October 3, 2018Well, to be fair, Hillary won the popular vote. So "the voice of the american people" isn't very accurate. And I don't like Hillary, nor Trump. We need more public live debates, more conversation, or else the "american people" will become more polarized.— Thunder Boys (@TropicThunder5) October 3, 2018 pic.twitter.com/JjA7jAXmpJ— Scott Morrison (@scomodog) October 3, 2018There were 3,000,000 more people in the US who didnt vote from Trump than did. Hes only president  because of an electoral vestige from slave era America, and possible Russian influence. This is not the will of a majority of the U.S.— wrongwayray (@nocalray) October 3, 2018Ahhhh … the electoral college elected Trump … not the people.— Matt Eastwood (@droneguy65) October 3, 2018Ah, yes, that quarter of the voting America that elected Trump.— Paul Gordon (@NoJob1263) October 3, 2018The majority didnt elect Trump. And withouth Putins hackers he wouldnt even have won the electoral vote— Wayne_Swiss2 (@Wayne_Swiss2) October 3, 2018President Tantrump was not elected by most Americans.  Silly Sarah.— Nelo (@penelo_peep) October 3, 2018The American people did not vote for Trump he lost the popular vote. Stop spreading lies. #FakeNews— Amber Marina (@AmberMarina6) October 3, 2018He lost the popular vote.— Peggy (@peggyw1225) October 3, 2018The American people voted for the other candidate.— El Publius (@Publius_Aguila) October 3, 20183 million less votes!— Benamin Woody (@BigWoo0716) October 3, 2018The people didnt elect Trump. 304 carefully selected people elected Trump.— Richard Moore (@Cormaic_Ruadh) October 3, 2018Watch the full segment below:.@PressSec: Theyre not opposed to Judge Kavanaughs judicial views, theyre literally trying to undercut the voice of the American people when they elected Donald Trump. pic.twitter.com/3Jda9GIner— Fox News (@FoxNews) October 3, 2018Sanders also went after Democrats who have questioned Kavanaugh’s truthfulness over his drinking habits during high school and college, stemming from allegations that he sexually assaulted several women during his youth while intoxicated at house parties.	Liberal
President Donald Trump frequently claimed on the campaign trail that he’d become a self-made billionaire after receiving “a small loan of a million dollars” from his father, Fred Trump.After a bombshell special investigation from TheNew York Timesrevealed that Trump had actually received at least $415 million dollarsoften illegally or unethicallyfrom his father, the president took to Twitter to decry the paper.The Failing New York Times did something I have never seen done before. They used the concept of time value of money in doing a very old, boring and often told hit piece on me. Added up, this means that 97% of their stories on me are bad. Never recovered from bad election call!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 3, 2018Trump bashing the New York Timesis hardly new, but what’s shocking is what Trump left out.When it comes to sexual assault allegations, the president advises the accused to “deny, deny, deny,” he doesn’t seem to be taking his own advice when it comes to tax fraud.Many were quick to point out that, while Trump clearly didn’t like the story, he stayed mum on whether it was true.No denial at all in there  They have the documentation to back it up.  What about you?  Why don't you show your tax returns?  You are a liar, a fraud, a con man, a bullshit artist.  Blue tsunami coming!  #Cult45— Steve Daily (@stevedaily83) October 3, 2018Ok. You don't like the NYT and the reporting they do about you. However, you're not addressing the story itself. This tells me that there must be some truth in it that scares you.— Kimbra cable (@cable_kimbra) October 3, 20181. I notice you dont dispute any of the facts.2. You are the one who cant seem to stop bringing up the election. Project much?— Beth Corvino (@bethcorvino) October 3, 2018The president is often quick to claim that bad press against him is outright false (even when it’s true), so many took this non-denial as confirmation of the story’s claims.So you are actually confirming the facts of the @nytimes story?— Iris S (@stein_ir) October 3, 2018Congratulations on confirming the accuracy of the story, I didn't think you had it in you— Moustachio (@moustachiopoker) October 3, 2018Thanks for confirming the veracity of the article. Nobody is surprised youre a tax cheat.— Cherry (@CherriesChatter) October 3, 2018TheTimesarticle appears to confirm that the president and his father conspired to skirt millions of dollars in taxes.It has some resurrecting the calls for Donald Trump to do something he’s been pressured to do since he was a candidate.	Liberal
Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina spoke with The Atlantic editor-in-chief, Jeffrey Goldberg, during The AtlanticFestival in Washington DC on Wednesday. Graham’s remarks drew boos from the crowd and confusion from Goldberg.At one point The Atlantic editor stated, “I don’t even know what that means.”The topic of conversation? President Donald Trump’s repeated public attacks against Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.Dr. Ford testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee regarding allegations of sexual assault by Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee.In his defense of Trump, Graham repeatedly brought up Bill Clinton and events from 1998without explanationwhich confused the crowd. His first statement was to paraphrase a James Carville comment from 1998.However, without any explanation, the crowd assumed he was speaking of Dr. Ford. Goldberg informed the crowd Graham had misquoted Carville. Graham continued to deflect to 1998 and Clinton, rather than address Trump in 2018.Finally, Goldberg asked if he meant Trump could have said worse so people should be grateful. Forcing Graham to address the present, the Senator claimed he did not like the President’s mocking of Ford, but then tried to excuse the behavior by stating the President acted out of frustration over the treatment of his SCOTUS nominee.In addition to deflecting the conversation to events from 20 years ago and making excuses for Trump’s behavior, Graham also drew boos when he stated everything the President said about Ford was factual.Watch Graham’s comments here.Graham’s behavior onstage earned him no fans, except maybe the one person he may have been playing to: President Trump. Throughout the confirmation process, people accused Graham of auditioning for the Attorney General position in the Trump administration.It turns out Lindsey is a titanic fraud. A fraud of Pence-ian dimensions. A small man lacking integrity and principals. He is a professional sidekick, The type of man who likes motorcycles but lacks the upper body strength to control one and thus is consigned to the side car. https://t.co/t0yEJEX3CP Steve Schmidt (@SteveSchmidtSES) October 3, 2018His ludicrous affectation and faux outrage at the hearings was a moment of beclownment that knows no equal. He is a political careerist and an unequaled sycophant when it comes to finding favor with power. He is a disgrace @LindseyGrahamSC Steve Schmidt (@SteveSchmidtSES) October 3, 2018I think Lindsey Graham’s outbursts today are about interviewing for the job of Trump’s next attorney general. Dan Rather (@DanRather) September 27, 2018“I will say literally anything to get this Attorney General job.” — @LindseyGrahamSC https://t.co/8vV4GJRT6P Stephen J. Cloobeck (@sjcloobeck) October 3, 2018Lindsey Graham just completed his interview for Attorney General. Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) September 27, 2018Was Lindsey Graham promised attorney general or something? #KavanaughHearings Zerlina Maxwell (@ZerlinaMaxwell) September 27, 2018Hey @LindseyGrahamSC. Did @realDonaldTrump offer you AG for after he fires Sessions or something? Scott Young (@ScottYoung98) October 3, 2018Others took exception to Graham’s remarks at The Atlantic Festival.	Liberal
Attorney Michael Avenatti took President Donald Trump to task after he, speakingat a rally in Mississippi last night, openly mocked Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who alleges Brett Kavanaugh, his Supreme Court nominee, sexually assaulted her at a party in high school.“Call him what he is – a misogynist pig with no respect for women,” Avenatti wrote, in part.Regardless of your politics, you should be outraged by the POTUS standing before a crowd and mocking a woman who claims she was sexually assaulted. @realDonaldTrump sought applause and laughter at her expense. Call him what he is – a misogynist pig with no respect for women.— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) October 3, 2018Many concurred, and at least one person suggested that the president should be subjectto Congressional censure.He has no respect for men, women, or children.  I base that solely on his words and actions and not because I despise him with every cell in my body.— Impeach Trump (@TrumpHaterShirt) October 3, 2018And the people there should be ashamed of themselves. That was truly horrifying and reminiscent of Nazi rallies. Im so saddened to have witnessed this— Kristina (@kmiranda1973) October 3, 2018Words cant express how much of a degrading lowlife Trashy Trump really is and even worse the sick demented people backing and supporting his actions its something bullies and children do and these actions will have effects on people and the world for life its a shame— Pablo (@paulnascarfan) October 3, 2018I just feel like that whole spectacle last night was fundamentally, morally, ethically, wrong and dishonest — she was anything but confused — it shouldn't be permissible in a civilized society, it's cruel and wrong. He should at least be subject to #CongressionalCensure— MattB (@MattheosB) October 3, 2018Not only am I outraged but as a mom it breaks my heart that this is the world my daughter is growing up in. She deserves better. We all deserve better. Regardless of gender, party etc…— Heather (@tatt2dmom1) October 3, 2018Avenatti is only the latest to condemn the president, whosought to poke holes in Dr. Fords account by acting out parts from last weeks hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.I had one beer! Trump said, characterizing Fords testimony about her level of intoxication at the time of the attack.How did you get home? the president asked, taking on the role of prosecutor.I dont remember, he said in his Ford voice.How did you get there? Trump continued, reverting to his role as prosecutor.I dont remember, he replied in the Ford voice.The president then mockingly asked and answered a series of questions with the responses I dont remember and I dont know. The crowd laughed and cheered behind him. A woman seated behind him held up a bright pink Women for Trump sign.WATCH: President Trump mocks Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, who has accused Trump's Supreme Court pick Judge Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct, during rally in Mississippi. https://t.co/pZfWN8IFMV pic.twitter.com/81YEs8oXr5— MSNBC (@MSNBC) October 3, 2018Last week, Trump lashed out atAvenatti shortly after Avenatti revealed the identity of his client, Julie Swetnick, who became the third woman to come forward with sexual assault claims against Kavanaugh.The president, seeking to undermine allegations brought forward by Dr. Ford and Deborah Ramirez, a Yale classmate of Kavanaugh’s who says he exposed himself to her during a fraternity party,called Avenatti a third ratelawyer who is good at making false accusations against him and is just looking for attention.Avenatti is a third rate lawyer who is good at making false accusations, like he did on me and like he is now doing on Judge Brett Kavanaugh. He is just looking for attention and doesnt want people to look at his past record and relationships – a total low-life!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2018Avenatti soon responded, and he took particular umbrage at the presidents claim that he has leveled false accusations.Like those crimes your fixer Cohen pled to? Avenatti asked, referencing former Trump attorney and fixer Michael Cohen, who last month pleaded guiltytoeight criminal countsfive charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraudin a case which vindicated Avenattis client, the adult film actress Stormy Daniels, whom for so many months the president and Cohen had maligned. Cohensaid that he made the payments at Trumps behest to buy Danielss silence and influence the 2016 presidential election.False accusations? Like those crimes your fixer Cohen pled to? You are an habitual liar and complete narcissist who also is a disgrace as a president and an embarrassment to our nation. You are so inept that your best and brightest are Cohen and Giuliani. Lets go.— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 26, 2018Others accused the president of projection, pointing out that he has been accused of sexual harassment and assault by numerous women, and that he has a long history of defending men accused of sexual assault, a list which includes Kavanaugh, formerWhite House staff secretary Rob Porter,embattled Republican candidate Roy Moore, and Fox News host Bill OReilly.	Liberal
Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s high school yearbook has been a major source of concern since multiple allegations of sexual assault have been lodged against the judge. Kavanaugh’s yearbook entry lists achievements like “Devil’s triangle,” “Renate Alumnius,” “boofing,” “100 keg club,” and others.Enter Judge Merrick Garland, former President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominee whom Republicans refused to meet with and who, unlike Kavanaugh, never got a hearing in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Senate Republicans instead held a seat open on the nation’s highest court for over a year. Many Americans haven’t forgotten the seat stolen from Garland (a seat that ultimately was filled by Justice Neil Gorsuch last year.)As a result, they’re now sharing Garland’s recently-resurfaced yearbook entry lists achievements like:…and more. It’s a stark reminder of what could’ve been.Merrick Garlands high school yearbook page, 1970, Niles West H.S., Skokie, IL. Just awful! No brewskis! Where was Tobins dad? pic.twitter.com/Lffu23HFnS— Michael Moore (@MMFlint) October 3, 2018In fact, compared to the other students attending Garland’s school, it appears he was a legend at extracurricular activities in addition to being a fine actor.apropos of nothing, here is Chief Judge Merrick Garland's high school yearbook entry pic.twitter.com/o1eTIimh5F— Mark Jia (@MarkZJia) October 1, 2018Kavanaugh’s yearbook entry, however, could not be more different.How does the Brett Kavanaugh conversation make you reflect upon on your yearbook? Tweet us photos of your yearbook entry  and share your thoughts about how its aged. You can also leave us a voicemail at (855)-869-9692. pic.twitter.com/4Z7rfOXcRA— WNYC  (@WNYC) October 2, 2018And people are starting to notice.Judge Merrick Garland's high school yearbook:I dunno…that 'Guys and Dolls' sounds rather suspicious.  'Pygmalion' might be a sex act.  'Thespians' is probably a drinking game. pic.twitter.com/AMEhysAo9L— Cornelia (@PaladinCornelia) October 1, 2018Know who didnt call himself an Alumnus of a female peer? Know who didnt write in his yearbook 100 kegs or bust? Know who didnt make references to crude sex acts or beach week?Merrick Motherf*cking Garland. pic.twitter.com/pFY0HO2Avk— Nathan H. Rubin (@NathanHRubin) October 2, 2018Have you read Merrick Garlands yearbook? I thought so. Dont be mad bro. https://t.co/AONJyzDBwu— James U (@jjones5250) October 1, 2018While Garland’s yearbook entry is a source of pride, Kavanaugh’s was not as well-received.	Liberal
While preparing for his confirmation process, Brett KavanaughPresident Donald Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Courtgathered endorsements from friends, colleagues and former employees.However some of those people changed their minds after witnessing Kavanaugh’s testimony or hearing the allegations against him.The latest people to change their endorsement are three former Kavanaugh law clerks:Will Dreher, Bridget Fahey and Rakim Brooks. Dreher, Fahey and Brooks wrote a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee giving their full endorsement and supporting Kavanaugh’s nomination.But the three penned a new letter for the Senate Judiciary Committee as the full Senate prepares to vote on Kavanaugh’s confirmation.In their new letter,Dreher, Fahey and Brooks expressed being “deeply troubled” by the sexual assault allegations against their former boss. the three also stated they felt troubled by the circumstances surrounding the allegations, namely the drunken underage partying described.Two former Yale classmates of Kavanaugh’s who previously vouched for him just wrote to the Senate Judiciary Committee to note they are withdrawing their support because of “the nature of Judge Kavanaughs testimony.” pic.twitter.com/b0DEQIbYQF Jennifer Bendery (@jbendery) October 2, 2018“Under the current circumstances, we fear that partisanship has injected itself into Judge Kavanaughs candidacy. That, and the lack of judicial temperament displayed on September 27 hearing, cause us to withdraw our support.” Jennifer Bendery (@jbendery) October 2, 2018Kavanaugh had at times in his testimony denied ever drinking while underage, but also admitted to liking beer while not directly acknowledging ever getting drunk while in high school or college.His former clerks told the Senate in their new letter that they fully support a full FBI investigation into their one time boss. They wrote:“We write to clarify that, like many Americans, we have been deeply troubled by those allegations and the events surrounding them and were encouraged by the initiation of a formal FBI investigation.”“We hope, for the good of everyone involved, that the investigation will be independent and thorough.”Read their full letter here.In related news, three former Kavanaugh clerks who previously said he was great just wrote to the Judiciary Committee to clarify that they are “deeply troubled” by the allegations against him. pic.twitter.com/9s8Bb7Uhtx Jennifer Bendery (@jbendery) October 2, 2018Reactions to Kavanaugh’s vanishing endorsements were swift on social media.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders’ response to Tuesday’s bombshell New York Times expose about how President Donald Trump enriched himself through decades of tax schemes sounds reads exactly like it was written by the president himself.Fred Trump has been gone for nearly twenty years and its sad to witness this misleading attack against the Trump family by the failing New York Times, Sanders wrote.Many decades ago the IRS reviewed and signed off on these transactions.”Sanders thrashed The New York Times and other media outlets credibility with the American people,” which she said “is at an all time low because they are consumed with attacking the president and his family 24/7 instead of reporting the news.”In Trumpian style, the statement lamented that the press can rarely find anything positive about the President and his tremendous record of success to report” after listing a string of Trump’s supposed accomplishments.The statement concludes with the author demanding “another apology from the New York Times, like the one they had to issue after they got the 2016 election so embarrassingly wrong, is in order.Its Donald Trumps voice coming out of Sarah Sanders statement pic.twitter.com/rBo3YSKJ5j— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) October 2, 2018Twitter, unfazed at the possibility the president is likely a titanic fraud, laid into Trump and Sanders for the statement’s feeble attempt to diminish the Times’s reporting.What!? Who would have thought? Oh, wait… We are talking about the trump family. Never mind, everybody expected something like that.— Hans Schmidt (@RealHansSchmidt) October 3, 2018You sold yourself as news but my investigation found you to be fake and garbage— COINLORD (@BTC4USD) October 3, 2018So @POTUS lied & @realDonaldTrump isnt worth what hes claimed. Not really a shocker, is it? #followthemoney— Lee Kelley (@LeeKelleyonDrms) October 3, 2018Not surprising.— Colin (@Col02177) October 3, 2018Shocking (not)— April Cummings-Garcy (@aprilanita) October 3, 2018New Yorkers knew @realDonaldTrump was a fraud already. But good to have the evidence now to convince others.— Rick Kullen (@realslickster) October 3, 2018His whole life just like the man himself are a complete fraud— Barry Waller (@BarryWaller61) October 3, 2018A stolen-made man who worked the system, walked away from his many failures. pic.twitter.com/hGTnWUjUrN— Lucy Parker (@lucyparker1004) October 3, 2018The IRS signs off on transactions about as often as people need ID to buy groceries.— The Other Rob Ryan (@baseballpajamas) October 3, 2018No daily briefings, and now Trump is writing her press releases. What exactly are we paying @PressSec for?— Charlie Hamik (@RainKing911) October 3, 2018Theres zero disputing of the New York Times findings in this statement.— Anonymous White House Official (@dvorakoelling) October 3, 2018Just Ignore Everything!!  Unemployment low, Jobs good, Trade the best, Sky Bluer, Grass Greener, Water Wetter.— Bill Pelotte (@KLGLASS2) October 3, 2018People still want to see Trump’s tax returns.Time to see them tax returns.— Haastime (@Haastime1) October 2, 2018@realDonaldTrump prove it!! Show your back taxes, and inheritance ..get it out in the open..that's all you have to do..— RICK ANGEL (@ZEPPFAN) October 2, 2018Or John Barrons voice.  https://t.co/sedoyoDKkA— guybo (@hotmess_DC) October 3, 2018On Tuesday, the New York Timespublished a 13,000 work investigative report (their longestever) about how Fred Trump, the president’s father, funneled more than a billion dollars to his children through financial gifts and schemes, avoiding at least $550 million in taxes.President Trump has sold himself as a self-made billionaire but our investigation found that he received more than $400 million from his fathers empire, much of it through dubious tax schemes during the 1990s, including instances of outright fraud. https://t.co/yXuPHrGwHg— The New York Times (@nytimes) October 3, 2018The president was the primary benefactor of his father’s riches and personally participated in “outright fraud” in order to enhance his own wealth, the Times report found.	Liberal
Speaking at a rally in Mississippi last night, President Donald Trump openly mocked Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who alleges Brett Kavanaugh, his Supreme Court nominee, sexually assaulted her at a party in high school.The president sought to poke holes in Dr. Ford’s account, by acting out parts from last week’s hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.“I had one beer!” Trump said, characterizing Ford’s testimony about her level of intoxication at the time of the attack.“How did you get home?” the president asked, taking on the role of prosecutor.“I don’t remember,” he said in his Ford voice.“How did you get there?” Trump continued, reverting to his role as prosecutor.“I don’t remember,” he replied in the Ford voice.WATCH: President Trump mocks Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, who has accused Trump's Supreme Court pick Judge Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct, during rally in Mississippi. https://t.co/pZfWN8IFMV pic.twitter.com/81YEs8oXr5— MSNBC (@MSNBC) October 3, 2018The president then mockingly asked and answered a series of questions with the responses “I don’t remember” and “I don’t know.” The crowd laughed and cheered behind him. A woman seated behind him held up a bright pink “Women for Trump” sign.The president’s behavior was savaged in a response from Michael R. Bromwich, a former Department of Justice official who now represents Dr. Ford.The president’s comments constitute “A vicious, vile and soulless attack on Dr. Ford” Bromwich said, in part.A vicious, vile and soulless attack on Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.  Is it any wonder that she was terrified to come forward, and that other sexual assault survivors are as well?  She is a remarkable profile in courage.  He is a profile in cowardice. https://t.co/UJ0bGxV1EZ— Michael R. Bromwich (@mrbromwich) October 3, 2018Others also weighed in, noting the “open contempt” the president showed Dr. Ford. Trump himself has been accused of sexual assault by at least 14 women; his behavior has been intensely scrutinized in light of numerous lawsuits filed against him and the existence of an “Access Hollywood” recording from 2005 in which he bragged openly about grabbing women “by the pussy.”Trump mocks Christine Blasey Fords testimony at his latest masturbatory rally. The open contempt he shows for her, and every survivor of sexual assault, is palpable. This soundbite should launch voter registration drives, as well as Election Day caravans. pic.twitter.com/7C3f01vVbv— Jamil Smith (@JamilSmith) October 3, 2018Trump, who has been accused of sexual assault by at least 14 women, just mocked Christine Ford for accusing Kavanaugh of sexual assault. "I don't know. I don't know. Upstairs, downstairs, I don't know. I don't remember."cc: @JeffFlake @SenatorCollins @lisamurkowski— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) October 3, 2018Tonight Trump publicly mocked Christine Blasey Ford.People laughed.They applauded.Mothers and fathers and grandparents of young women, lapped up his filth.He's a horrible human being.People supporting him are too.Vote Blue. We are our only hope.https://t.co/p3l87oYDhE— John Pavlovitz (@johnpavlovitz) October 3, 2018At a Mississippi rally tonite Donald Trump actually *mocked* Dr. Christine Blasey Fords poignant Senate testimony about Brett Kavanaughs alleged attempt to rape her. Trump could hold his tongue no longer. We have to hope Brett Kavanaugh wouldve found that display disgusting.— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) October 3, 2018Repeat after me: there is no bottom https://t.co/yWk3zrOVer— Paul Krugman (@paulkrugman) October 3, 2018Politicians from both sides of the aisle also condemned the president.Senator Jeff Flake, (R-AZ), who sided with his Democratic colleagues who sought a one-week delay on Kavanaugh’s confirmation to allow an FBI investigation to proceed, called Trump’s comments “appalling.”“Theres no time and no place for remarks like that,” Flake said in an interview with NBC’s “Today.”To discuss something this sensitive at a political rally is just not right. I wish he hadn’t done it.”Theres no time and no place for remarks like that. But to discuss something this sensitive at a political rally is just not rightIts kind of appalling. @JeffFlake on President Trumps comments about Dr. Ford at a rally last night pic.twitter.com/6SaTLZK899— TODAY (@TODAYshow) October 3, 2018Senator Kamala Harris, (D-CA), who questioned Kavanaugh in her capacity as a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, called Dr. Ford “a profile in courage.”Dr. Ford is a profile in courage. She knew what she was up against when she came forward but spoke out because she felt it was her civic duty. She deserves better.— Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) October 3, 2018Senator Mazie Hirono, (D-HI), expressed her lack of faith in the president, saying:“We can always count on the President to go down to the lowest common denominator, mock people, call people names, attack them.”"This is what he does." Democratic Senator @maziehirono responds to President Trump's remarks saying, "We can always count on the President to go down to the lowest common denominator, mock people, call people names, attack them." https://t.co/gwk71WNwuW pic.twitter.com/ZaWCUyTY3Y— Anderson Cooper 360 (@AC360) October 3, 2018The president’s comments were especially jarring because although he had questioned the veracity of Dr. Ford’s account, he had appeared to apply restraint, at one point referring to her as a “credible witness.”Last week, the president fired back at reports that he and his administration are limiting the scope of the FBIs investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations leveled at Kavanaugh.	Liberal
During the 2016 presidential election, no love was lost between Republican rivals and outsider Donald Trump. Insults routinely flew between the GOP insiders and the New York businessman.And as is his wont, Trump took to Twitter to further debase a certain Texas Senator. Now one of those Trump tweets about Ted Cruz is being used by those trying to defeat the incumbent Republican in November’s midterm election.And they are using it in a very big way.Mad Dog is coming after Cruz. With a tweet. In a Truck. https://t.co/g2orQLd0n7 see you in Dallas, Baby pic.twitter.com/Ut6P4y31Qi Claude Taylor (@TrueFactsStated) September 9, 2018A 22-foot-long truck sporting one of Trump’s tweets directed at Cruz is making the rounds in Texas. What began as a joke led to a GoFundMe effort to buy a billboard showing what Trump said about Cruz. The truck sports this Trump Twitter post:Why would the people of Texas support Ted Cruz when he has accomplished absolutely nothing for them. He is another all talk, no action pol! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 28, 2016But once the funding goal was met, Antonio Arellanoa Houston-based activist and Latinx community organizerdecided a rolling billboard would reach more voters. Rather than be limited to a single spot, a truck became the location for their message.Activists David Hogg and Claude Taylor also joined the effort and celebrated online after the funding goal achievement. Hogg also shared that there was no shortage of Trump insult tweets for Cruz.So many wonderful selections to choose from… Thank you @POTUS pic.twitter.com/Q9dmuQr2AT David Hogg (@davidhogg111) September 2, 2018Arellano finally decided on the tweet featured on the truck. Since then, the truck spawned its own hashtag, #TrumpTweetTruck, and has been spotted around Texas at different events.??Houston, Texas #TrumpTweetTruck pic.twitter.com/IW4oqOWxMh Antonio (@AntonioArellano) October 1, 2018We love the #TrumpTweetTruck. It has a simple message from Trump to voters in Texas: “Why would the people of Texas support Ted Cruz when he has accomplished absolutely nothing for them,” Trump’s 2016 tweet read. “He is another all talk, no action pol!” https://t.co/MvJEPqJFY6 Democratic Coalition (@TheDemCoalition) September 22, 2018#TrumpTweetTruck its a party pic.twitter.com/jxWphT9qMa TrumpTweetTruck (@TrumpTweetTruc1) September 29, 2018At the The Galleria in Houston. #TrumpTweetTruck #twitchstream pic.twitter.com/Nb6EmH9NXB Matiur Rahman (@MatiurDC) October 2, 2018Welcome #TrumpTweetTruck !! https://t.co/XQac41DLek Gina Dutton (@dutton_gina) October 1, 2018Yay! The #TrumpTweetTruck finally made it to Austin!! @TrueFactsStatedHelp keep it going by purchasing awesome stuff, like my personal favorite – Traitor Ballon: https://t.co/b0kURNwBev#BetoForTexas #RegisterToVote #HumansAgainstTedCruz https://t.co/cF0ejE9jsb Libby (@Mad_Libs4) September 29, 2018Checking in from Arlington Texas !#TrumpTweetTruck pic.twitter.com/VkUfJk50tL Don Eduardo De La Huerta (@spagheddieee) September 23, 2018While Arellano capped the original funding after $,9,760.00, he may seek further funding to send the truck further out of central Texas.Can you guys make a stop in El Paso, Tx? ??@TrumpTweetTruc1 #TrumpTweetTruck Rolf Budden (@Shane_Anthony94) October 2, 2018The relationship between President Donald Trump and Senator Ted Cruz is complicated.	Liberal
Hillary Clinton has responded to Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s claim that the allegations of sexual assault stalling his confirmation were fueled by “revenge on behalf of the Clintons.”In an interview at The Atlantic Festival on Tuesday, Clinton laughed when asked to give a response.“It deserves a lot of laughter,” the former presidential candidate said. “I wasn’t watching when he said that. I was having to be somewhere else away from a TV and even my phone and so I heard about it later.”Clinton said she thought Kavanaugh’s conspiracy theory was “just part of the whole of his very defensive and unconvincing presentation.”She added that she “told someone later” that Republicans “give us a lot of credit… 36 years ago, we started this against him,” Clinton joked.Watch the full clip below:Clinton also remarked on Kavanaugh’s temperament as it relates to the behavior expected of judges.“I want the FBI to conduct as thorough an investigation as they possibly can within whatever restraints are imposed upon them,” Clinton said, “but I think for anyone who believes there’s such a thing as judicial temperament, and that we want judges, particularly those on our highest court” to approach cases with “a sense of fairness.”Clinton believes that due to Kavanaugh’s aggressive demeanor at the hearing, “there’s a lot to be concerned about.”At last week’s hearing, Kavanaugh railed against what he called a “calculated and orchestrated political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President Trump and the 2016 election.”“Fear that has been unfairly stoked about my judicial record,” Kavanaugh said. “Revenge on behalf of the Clintons. and millions of dollars in money from outside left-wing opposition groups.”Some people on social media thought it was ridiculous that Kavanaugh invoked the Clintons – right out of President Donald Trump’s playbook.Now even Kavanaugh is playing the Hillary Card! I wonder who adviced him on this?— Paul van der Meer (@Paul_VanDerMeer) October 2, 2018Good for her because everything kavanaw and trump do is laughable until you realize how shitty they both really are— Ally Baba (@AllyBrodwey) October 2, 2018https://twitter.com/w_democrat_w/status/1047201381881401344Others just decided to laugh along with her. Because really, what else is there?	Liberal
During an appearance at The Atlantic Festival in Washington DC, Senate Judiciary Committee members Jeff Flake and Chris Coons answered questions regarding the recent confirmation hearing for Brett Kavanaugh.Democratic Senator Coons of Delaware finished a “what if Kavanaugh is given a lifetime placement on the Supreme Court” question and the host addressed Republican Senator Flake of Arizona for a response.Flake’s answer seemed to indicate Kavanaugh should not be confirmed. The Arizona Republican stated:“I was very troubled by the tone of the remarks.The initial defense that Judge Kavanaugh gave was something like I told my wife: I hope that I sound that indignant if I was unjustly maligned.”“But then it went on, and the interaction with the members was sharp and partisan, and that concerns me.And I tell myself you give a little leeway because of what he’s been through. But, on the other hand, we can’t have this on the Court. We simply can’t…”“…We simply have to elevate people to leadership positions and elect people who see it differently and understand the value and purpose of the Supreme Court.”Watch Flake’s full remarks here.Sen. @JeffFlake on Judge #Kavanaugh: “The interaction with the members was sharp and partisan and that concerns me. And I tell myself you give a little leeway because of what he’s been through. But, on the other hand, we can’t have this on the Court. We simply can’t.” pic.twitter.com/0horDp9iGn CSPAN (@cspan) October 2, 2018During his opening statement after the testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Fordwho accused President Donald Trump’s SCOTUS nominee of sexual assault when she was 15Kavanaugh attacked Democrats. He read from his prepared speech:“This whole two-week effort has been a calculated and orchestrated political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President Trump and the 2016 election, fear that has been unfairly stoked about judicial record, revenge on behalf of the Clintons…”Senator Flake also characterized the SCOTUS nominee as hostile toward Democratic Senators on the Senate Judiciary Committee. But the Supreme Court is not supposed to pick a party.While SCOTUS Justices might be seen as conservative or liberal, they are not supposed to be seen as completely biased for or against a political party. Flake stated Kavanaugh’s obvious animus against Democrats troubled him.Flake previously said if Kavanaugh lied, that act also excluded him from being seated for a lifetime appointment on the SCOTUS bench. But when asked to clarify his remarks during The Atlantic Festival immediately after the event, Flake seemed “rattled” according to Elaina Plott, a writer for The Atlantic.JUST POSTED: Jeff Flake criticized Kavanaugh for his “sharp and partisan” exchanges. “We can’t have that on the court,” he said. When I caught Flake after the event to ask if this meant he wouldn’t vote to confirm, he appeared extremely rattled. https://t.co/JMdv4m4nvE Elaina Plott (@elainaplott) October 2, 2018People on social media demanded a clear answer from Flake…	Liberal
As a former Weekend Update host on Saturday Night Live,Late Nighthost Seth Meyers is used to eviscerating celebrities and politicians from a news desk.He reminded Americans during a segment of the popular show: A Closer Look. During the segment, Meyers set his sights onsexist and belligerent remarks made by President Donald Trump to ABC News White House correspondent Cecilia Vega and another female reporter yesterday in a press conference.After playing clips of the tense interactions, the camera cut back to Meyers, who asked incredulously:“I mean How much of a sexist dick could you possibly be?”After holding off the audience’s applause, Meyers continued:Its almost like he saw someone else getting attention for acting like a maniac on TV and thought I can top that.'”That’s when Meyers pulled up a picture of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, whose combative testimony during a hearing regarding sexual assault allegations against him alarmed Americans everywhere.The clip fromLate Night with Seth Meyersis available below:Late night comedian Seth Meyers takes Donald Trump to task for his treatment of female reporters during Monday press conference (NBC/Broadway Video) https://t.co/uGo8uMmOIs pic.twitter.com/a5Cn8v9TbN— Matthew Keys (@MatthewKeysLive) October 2, 2018Viewers were quick to agree:Yes, yes he is. And more.— Suds (@gmooms) October 2, 2018Yup. Seths right.— Corgi Girl (@barblet30) October 2, 2018@sethmeyers was too kind, but he was working within the confines of the FCC.— Bill Vanglahn (@billvanglahn) October 2, 2018I think that well has no bottom— Sam Oren (@oren_sam) October 2, 2018Meyers wasn’t the only one to notice.	Liberal
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) threatened to condemn President Barack Obama’s administration if it had gone public after learning about Russian efforts to disrupt the 2016 election in favor of Donald Trump, according Greg Miller of The Washington Post.Miller told CNN on Tuesday the CIA warned McConnell that “[Russian President Vladimir] Putin is overseeing” an “operation to help elect Trump.”Miller went on to explain that CIA Director John Brennan held a series of “private briefings” with Congressional leaders, during which McConnell threatened to accuse the Obama administration of meddling in the election in favor of Hillary Clinton if the intelligence was made public.“If you try to come forward with this, I’m not going to sign on to any public statement that would condemn Russian interference,” Miller said of McConnell, “but I will condemn you and the Obama administration for trying to mess up this election.”Miller added that “this is one just one of many many behind-the-scenes moments we capture” in his new book,The Apprentice: Trump, Russia, and the Subversion of American Democracy.Yikes. WaPo's @GregPMiller describes a tense moment from 2016 involving a CIA director trying to sound the alarm on Russia and a senior U.S. senator wanting none of it… pic.twitter.com/iuQEiOs5Bh— Josh Campbell (@joshscampbell) October 2, 2018Twitter erupted with anger at McConnell and fully remembers the obstruction the Kentucky Republican pulled at the expense of American election security.Also: Mitch McConnell stopped the Obama administration from speaking out about Russian interference in the 2016 campaign by refusing to sign on to a bipartisan statement of condemnation. https://t.co/cvWcnFjte1 #McConnellTrumpRussia #2016RussiaElectionInterference— LibertyBansTrump (@YesWeCan4Us) October 2, 2018This included preventing Obama from nominating Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court months before the election.He didnt hold that SCOTUS seat open for a year so Clinton could fill it. Mitch welcomed all the help he could get from any available source – hostile foreign powers included!— C. Bird (@clbirds) October 2, 2018Many people consider McConnell’s actions to be treasonous.He helped enable an information warfare attack on the United States.— Mary Bonkers (@MsTrashmouth) October 2, 2018Its an act of deliberate treason.— Carroll Chaney (@QuanahChaney) October 2, 2018https://twitter.com/NikiAquarius/status/1047106178461962240SOLD TO RUSSIA! NOW, we know why! At the time, we didn't know Mitch McConnell was getting $3.5 MILLION from Russia, and others like Lindsey Graham was getting $800,000, etc, etc.. @BarackObama @HillaryClinton @SenSanders @fbi https://t.co/S7lMixfCa1 pic.twitter.com/K2KkiLcIIW— Chris Morris (@cm_merlin) October 2, 2018https://twitter.com/MikeCarubia/status/1047109241352478721Mitch @senatemajldr HAS COMMITTED TREASON. Cared more about getting a @gop president than protecting our country.  @JohnBrennan told him and he CHOSE to withhold the info from us.— Annie McG (@Cheecheemcg) October 2, 2018Miller’s account corroborates claims made by former Vice President Joe Biden in January, who said McConnell’s refusing to issue a bipartisan condemnation of Russia’s actions made him feel like the die had been cast … this was all about the political play.	Liberal
President Donald Trump, in one of his standard inflammatory tweets, offered his reasoning for why people would vote for Democrats in November. According to the president, the only reason to vote for a Democrat “IS IF YOU’RE TIRED OF WINNING!”THE ONLY REASON TO VOTE FOR A DEMOCRAT IS IF YOURE TIRED OF WINNING!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 2, 2018The president was immediately savaged for his tweet, with many reminding him of some of his administration’s biggest scandals.One individual noted that many migrant children are still separated from their parents as a result of the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” family separation policy which kicked off a humanitarian crisis along our nation’s southern border this past summer. (The Trump administration has failed to meet deadlines imposed by federal courts to reunite parents with their children.) The Trump administration has also, as Second Nexus has written about, diverted funds from cancer and HIV research to cover the cost of housing these children in detention centers and tent cities.Additionally, the GOP’s tax plan has raised the national deficit and has largely been criticized as a boon for the rich; while the rest of the nation might see more in their paychecks right now, the worst of the cutbacks imposed by the plan won’t hit for another few years.Winning? With just 35 days until the midterm elections, let's review how 'great' America is right now:-100s of children still separated from their parents, over 2/3s of whom have been deported-To pay for these kidnapped kids, Trump admin takes $ from cancer research,— Lesley Abravanel (@lesleyabravanel) October 2, 2018womens shelters, substance abuse programs, health care for people with HIV/AIDS, Head Start, FEMA–@GOP #TaxScam2 raises the national deficit while lining the pockets of the uber rich with 90 million working families expected to pay more in taxes— Lesley Abravanel (@lesleyabravanel) October 2, 2018Another cited three other reasons for the predicted “blue wave” in November…No, @realDonaldTrump, people are voting for Democrats because we want 1) Higher wages2) Lower health care costs3) An end to the GOP culture of corruption— David Cicilline (@davidcicilline) October 2, 2018…while another offered several more:America isnt broke, were being robbed. Top 1% own 40% of net worth, earn 20% of all income, pay effective tax near 15% and each have $10+ million. Im not opposed to capitalism. Im opposed to wealthfare. Dont tell me taxpayers needed to give them tax cut #ReasonsToVoteBlue—  Christopher Zullo (@ChrisJZullo) October 2, 2018Another suggested that people might vote for Democrats in the upcoming midterms because they are “tired” of the president’s disregard for the Constitution, which supporters of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe hope will result in impeachment proceedings.The only reason you vote democrat is because you are tired of a treasonous SOB committing violations against the United States constitution in the Oval Office and youre tired of a congress that doesnt serve as a check against the executive office!! F.U.— Louis Vote November 6th 2018 (@louis_5466) October 2, 2018And still another noted that, among other things, under Trump’s leadership and the current Republican majority women’s rights (the GOP allowed the Violence Against Women Act to expire last month) and LGBT rights (the Trump administration will begin denying visas to same-sex partners of diplomats and U.N. officials) have taken significant hits.The Trump administration has also rolled back numerous environmental protections, the most recent of which is a proposal sent to the White House on Friday by the Environmental Protection Agency that would weaken major environmental regulation covering mercury, a toxic chemical emitted from coal-burning power plants.Vote for the GOP if you want:Women's rights destroyed.LGBT rights and protections dissolved and removed.Legal, as well as, illegal immigrants getting deported.Dicrimination ofpeople of color.Natural resources sold or destroyed.Environmental and safety standards destroyed— Resu59 (@Resu59) October 2, 2018The president has, in recent weeks, also stoked fears that women voters could severely impact Republicans amid controversy regarding the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Kavanaugh has been accused of sexual misconduct by several women, including Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, who alleges he assaulted her at a party when they were both high school students and testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee last week.The president has continued to support his nominee despite significant pushback around the nation and only recently agreed to grant the FBI permission to investigate the claims.	Liberal
Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) remained adamant in his support for Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh on Hannitylast night, reiterating his belief that the effort to halt Kavanaugh’s confirmation on the basis of sexual assault allegations is a smear campaign by Democrats.However, as more reports of Kavanaugh’s drunkenness and aggression begin to suggest he misled the Senate Judiciary Committee under oath, his confirmation is becoming less and less certain. When host Sean Hannity asked the senator what President Donald Trump should do if Kavanaugh loses the confirmation, Graham had an interesting take.“Here’s what I would tell the president, I would appeal the verdict of the Senate to the ballot box.” He continued:“So what would I do? I would renominate him and I would take this case to the American people.”He explained his logic:“Id ask voters in Indiana and Missouri and North Dakota and other places where Trump won saying who he would nominate if he got to be president and see if voters want to appeal the verdict of their senator.”Sean Hannity needed to hear it again:“So you’re saying if you fall one vote short, you’re saying…the President should renominate him?”Watch it below:Sen. @LindseyGrahamSC on if Kavanaugh loses a Senate floor vote: "I would renominate him and I would take this case to the American people." #Hannity pic.twitter.com/9r0rdcaeez— Fox News (@FoxNews) October 2, 2018Americans couldn’t believe theirears either:@LindseyGrahamSC Have you been drinking?— Nasty Woman Voter (@buzzzbea) October 2, 2018That is ridiculous.— cathy mac (@heartsnyc) October 2, 2018 pic.twitter.com/7n8H3fej7x— Abe Solomon (@AbeSolomon9) October 2, 2018Others pointed out that the American people to whom Graham is so ready to entrust the decision don’t want Kavanaugh either. Kavanaugh has the lowest support of any Supreme Court nominee.That hasn’t stopped Graham from vociferously defending Kavanaugh even after the nominee’s testimony was thought to be a disaster.	Liberal
The White Houseofficial transcript of Donald Trump’s trade press conference originally misquoted the president after hehurled an insult at a female reporter asking about the FBI investigation into Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.Calling on ABC’s Cecilia Vega, the president said: “Yeah. Go Ahead. Sure. She’s shocked that I picked her. She’s like in a state of shock.”Vega replied: “I’m not. Thank you,Mr. President.”Here’s where it gets funky. The official transcript had the president saying:“That’s okay. I know you’re not thanking. You never do.”To which Vega replies: “I’m sorry?”Then Trump concludes: “No, go ahead. Go ahead.”VOANews’s Steven Herman quickly pointed out the error.“I was sitting just behind her in the Rose Garden,” Herman tweeted, “and we all clearly heard him say: ‘I know you’re not thinking. You never do.”Official @WhiteHouse transcripts misquotes @POTUS today chiding @CeciliaVega (compare video to text). I was sitting just behind her in the Rose Garden and we all clearly heard him say: "I know you're not thinking. You never do. https://t.co/Q2frFLjpKx pic.twitter.com/vIYoYOzXrS— Steve Herman (@W7VOA) October 2, 2018Video of the exchange corroborates Herman’s account. Trump can clearly be seen and heard saying: “That’sokay.I know you’re not thinking. You never do.”Pres. Trump says he'll answer @CeciliaVega's question about whether White House is limiting scope FBI inquiry into Brett Kavanaugh "later," preferring to talk about trade: "How about talking about trade, and then we'll get to that." https://t.co/Z0mDRU4a2I pic.twitter.com/RLKkqV6Q4f— ABC News (@ABC) October 1, 2018Steve Herman, who originally reported the misquoted transcript and sent an inquiry to the White House about it, later revealed that the White House had corrected the transcript to reflect the president’s insult.Update: @WhiteHouse has just issued a corrected transcript, changing "thanking" to "thinking." https://t.co/ZczNplxgfF— Steve Herman (@W7VOA) October 2, 2018pic.twitter.com/P12KbhxqXu— Steve Herman (@W7VOA) October 2, 2018This has since been confirmed by CNN.Few thought the “misquote” was an accident, however.They LIED they did not "misquote"  Call what they did with it's proper name don't say misrepresented or misquoted call them LIES—  (@toxotis71) October 2, 2018misquotes makes it sound like an innocent mistake which it wasnt— lu (@tins1222) October 2, 2018I'm sorry White House you do not get to change history, we all heard him.  Fix this and fix this now.— Nina (@Nina33424062) October 2, 2018WTF– if she said "thank you", why would Trump say "you're not thanking". That makes no sense. Now, I will grant if the audio was messed up and pauses between words were sped up, that interpretation is possible, but the rest of the clip has clear audio.— Alexander Lloyd (@alexlloyd723) October 2, 2018Its so weird for them to do stuff like this. It has been recorded and televised in more than one country.— Dogwood83 (@Evie5961) October 2, 2018The sleight of hand doesn’t even make sense, in context.But she had literally JUST SAID thank you. Why would he answer her by saying I know youre not thanking. And they act like that makes complete fucking sense! pic.twitter.com/sVgVNS6R18— JFC (@joffiecakes) October 2, 2018"Thanking"?  No. It was clearly "thinking" and thanking doesn't even make sense without a "me".— Yes, that, #CyberMonday Criminal, Holly (@imthatholly) October 2, 2018The Daily Show spoofed it, naturally.	Liberal
For some time, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford stood alone in accusing President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee of sexual misconduct. However there was a second accuser, Deborah Ramirez, whose story of a drunk Brett Kavanaugh exposing himself to her while both were students at Yale would come out in The New Yorker.When asked under oath about Ramirez, Kavanaugh stated he knew nothing about the second accusation untilThe New Yorker article came out on September 23. But according to texts between two of his friends from YaleKerry Berchem and Karen YarasavageKavanaugh and his team reached out to friends who knew both the nominee and Ramirez to try to refute the allegations before the article’s publication.NBC News: Text messages between two friends of Brett Kavanaugh “suggest that the nominee was personally talking with former classmates about [Deborah] Ramirez’s story in advance of the New Yorker article that made her allegation public.”https://t.co/rg3C0l9Etp Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) October 1, 2018NBC News notes that Kavanaugh told the Judiciary Committee under oath that the 1st time he heard about Deborah Ramirez’s allegation was in the New Yorker article. These text messages would seem to refute that timeline, if accurate. https://t.co/mA7QxIbnt2 Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) October 1, 2018During an interview with Republican Judiciary Committee staff on September 25, after The New Yorker article detailing Ramirez’s claims, Kavanaugh stated it was Ramirez who was “calling around to classmates trying to see if they remembered it.” The nominee also stated:“[It] strikes me as, you know, what is going on here? When someone is calling around to try to refresh other people? Is that whats going on? Whats going on with that? That doesnt sound  that doesnt sound  good to me. It doesnt sound fair. It doesnt sound proper. It sounds like an orchestrated hit to take me out.”However, according to text messages,Kavanaugh and his team communicated with Yale friends to coordinate a defense against the claim before the story broke, not Ramirez trying to substantiate it. Kavanaugh asking friends to help refute a story he claimed was false before the date he stated under oath he learned of it, would prove Kavanaugh lied several times.Because of this, Kerry Berchem hoped to turn over the text messages to the Senate Judiciary Committee and a memo she wrote about them. A resident of Connecticut, Berchem reached out to her Senator on the Judiciary Committee, Democrat Richard Blumenthal, last week. According to a spokesperson for the Connecticut Senator:“We heard from Kerry late on Thursday and submitted her summary to the Judiciary Committee early Friday. After we were made to jump through several hoops that delayed our moving forward, it became clear that the majority Committee staff had not turned this summary over to the FBI and, in fact, had no intention of turning it over to the FBI. With our assistance, Kerry submitted her summary to the FBI herself.”A spokesperson from Republican Senator Chuck Grassley’s office responded, stating Berchem’s information regarding Kavanaugh attempting to coordinate Yale friends to refute Ramirez’s story before the date he claimed under oath that he first learned of it, “do not appear relevant or contradictory.” The spokesperson characterized Berchem’s information as “another last-ditch effort to derail the nomination with baseless innuendo by Democrats.”In a statement to NBC News, Berchem said:“I understand that President Trump and the U.S. Senate have ordered an FBI investigation into certain allegations of sexual misconduct by the nominee Brett Kavanaugh. I have no direct or indirect knowledge about any of the allegations against him.”“However, I am in receipt of text messages from a mutual friend of both Debbie and mine that raise questions related to the allegations. I have not drawn any conclusions as to what the texts may mean or may not mean but I do believe they merit investigation by the FBI and the Senate.”Berchems memo regarding messages with Yarasavage indicate a circle of Kavanaugh friends who may possess information and evidence regarding the Ramirez allegations.She also said Kavanaugh and/or his friends may have initiated an anticipatory narrative as early as July to conceal or discredit Ramirez.This directly refutes the statement Kavanaugh made on September 25 which is a major issue.	Liberal
Speaking at a campaign rally in Springfield, Missouri on Friday, President Donald Trump claimed that the United States, under his leadership is “respected” once again.“Our country is respected again, remember that,” the president said before proceeding to gloat about the economy, the stock market, the military, law enforcement, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).New research indicates, however, that America’s global image has suffered drastically since former President Barack Obama left office. The Pew Research Center found that “as the second anniversary of Trumps election approaches, a new 25-nation Pew Research Center survey finds that Trumps international image remains poor, while ratings for the United States are much lower than during Barack Obamas presidency.”BREAKING: New @pewresearch report on how the world sees Trump & America (thread)https://t.co/bi9MdMwsCy— Conrad Hackett (@conradhackett) October 1, 2018Pew found that:NEW: Change in favorable views of US from end of Obama era to current Trump eraMexico 34 pointsNetherlands 31Germany 27 Canada 26Sweden 25France 25Italy 20Indonesia 20Brazil 18Spain 17UK 11Argentina 11Australia 6Kenya 7Russia  11 pts pic.twitter.com/zGDQF84EcZ— Conrad Hackett (@conradhackett) October 1, 2018The graph below,derived from percentage medians based on results from 25 countries, outlines much of this trend. For example, confidence in Trump now stands at 27 percent globally, while 70% of nations surveyed say they do not have confidence in Trump. Views of the U.S. are also widely split, with 50 percent holding favorable views of the U.S. and 43 percent holding unfavorable ones. And other variablessuch as whether the U.S. respects the personal freedoms of its peopledo not fare much better.Some of America’s closest allies report significant frustration with the U.S. under Trump’s leadership.NEW: Have no confidence in TrumpSpain 93%Mexico 91France 90Germany 90Greece 83Sweden 82Brazil 78Tunisia 76UK 70Russia 69Japan 66Australia 66Hungary 60Poland 56Israel 31https://t.co/bi9MdMwsCy pic.twitter.com/Xxp2PzrYGo— Conrad Hackett (@conradhackett) October 1, 2018In Germany for instance, which Trump has sparred with multiple times (including rather notoriously with Chancellor Angela Merkel at this year’s G7 summit),just 10 percent. have confidence in Trump. Additionally, Pew notes, “three-in-four people say the U.S. is doing less these days to address global problems, and the share of the public who believe the U.S. respects personal freedoms is down 35 percentage points since 2008.” Angela Merkel is generally well-liked across the European Union.In France(where the relationship between Trump and President Emmanuel Macron has never been stellar), only 9 percent have confidence in Trump.81% think the U.S. “doesnt consider the interests of countries like France when making foreign policy decisions,” Pew reports. Macron remains very popular in the European Union.In fact, some of our most negative ratings are in Europe, Pew notes:Ten of the 25 countries in this years survey are European Union member states, and across these EU nations a median of just 43% offer a favorable opinion of the U.S. Meanwhile, majorities in four of the five Asia-Pacific nations polled give the U.S. a positive rating, including 83% in the Philippines, one of the highest ratings in the survey. The U.S. also gets high marks in South Korea, where 80% have a positive view of the U.S. and confidence in President Trump has increased over the past year from 17% to 44%.The graph below shows that confidence in Trump remains low across the E.U.:Interestingly enough, Trump fares the worst in Russia, where the average Russian finds him less attractive than the Russian oligarchs who, U.S. intelligence has concluded, ferried him to power:The country giving the U.S. its lowest rating in the survey, and the place where the biggest drop in U.S. favorability has taken place over the past year, is Russia. Just 26% of Russians have a favorable opinion of the U.S., compared with 41% in 2017. A 55% majority of Russians say relations have gotten worse in the past year, and the share of the public with a positive view of Trump has dropped from 53% to 19%.Our closest neighbors also think less of us. Pew’s survey found that among Canadians only 25 percent rate Trump positively and 63 percent believethe U.S. is doing “less than in the past to address global problems.” 82 percent believe the U.S. doesn’t consider Canada’s interests when devising policy. Trump’s lowest ratings are in Mexico, which he has often scapegoated regarding illegal immigration. Just 6 percent of Mexicans expressed confidence in Trump’s leadership.Generally speaking, however, favorable views of the U.S. prevail, as the graph below indicates:The ally with which Trump enjoys his highest rating is Israel, where his positive rating jumped to 69 percent, up from 56 percent in 2017. The graph above shows that views on the U.S. are predominantly favorable in Israel, too, standing at 83 percent.Opinions on the direction of U.S. power remain rather divided. Pew reports that “Across the 25 nations surveyed, a median of 31% say the U.S. plays a more important role in the world today than it did ten years ago; 25% say it plays a less important role; and 35% believe the U.S. is as important as it was a decade ago.”The general consensus, however, tells us that China’s role on the global stage has increased: “A median of 70% say Chinas role on the world stage has grown over the past 10 years. Still, by a slim margin, more people name the U.S. as the worlds leading economic power (a median of 39% say the U.S., 34% say China).”However, “the idea of a U.S.-led world order is still attractive to most,” Pew notes, and when asked whether they would prefer China or the U.S. as the top global power, “people in nearly every country tend to select the U.S., and this is particularly common among some of Chinas Asia-Pacific neighbors, such as Japan, the Philippines, South Korea and Australia.”The graph below shows how opinions on how power between the two countries has shifted.The full Pew report can be found HERE.	Liberal
In an effort to quash California’s efforts to keep the repeal of net neutrality laws from affecting the state’s high population and booming tech market, Donald Trump’s Justice Department has filed a lawsuit against the state. The suit came hours after California Governor Jerry Brown signed Senate Bill 822, which prohibits deliberate slowing of service by internet providers, into law.The suit claims that California Senate Bill 822“unlawfully imposes burdens on the Federal Governments deregulatory approach to the Internet.”Attorney General Jeff Sessions added:States do not regulate interstate commerce  the federal government does. Once again the California legislature has enacted an extreme and illegal state law attempting to frustrate federal policy.While President Donald Trump and his administration have routinely railed against regulation in any form, the vast majority of Americans were opposed to abolishing regulations of the internet. Repeal of net neutrality laws opens the door for internet providers favoring certain users over others, charging higher for different internet speeds, charging more for specific websites and other impositions. With a service as vital and useful as internet access, the policies could hinder service to millions of Americans.The suit was filed hours after Governor Brown signed S.B. 822 into law. Now, Americans are speaking out against it.Trump administration always sides with big business against the common person, yet Trump claims to care about average Americans.— Ron Waxman (@RonWaxman) October 1, 2018There's clearly a right side and a wrong side here. California wants to protect the free and fair internet instead of helping big cable companies https://t.co/LGshPFmYmC— Kamala Harris (@SenKamalaHarris) October 1, 2018The trump administration: God forbid taxpayer money is used for fixing infrastructure, health care, or education; nope, let's waste more money suing a state for protecting its citizens against the greedy abuse of internet service providers. How trump works to bankrupt the USA 202— connie k. wingo (@angelrubes) October 1, 2018God forbid the DOJ should side with people for once.— Kathryn Grace (@YayYaysKitchen) October 1, 2018The Republican party has long painted itself as the party of states’ rights and against “big government.” They hypocrisy didn’t go unnoticed.I thought Republicans were all about states rights— Willow Moonriser (@WillowMoonriser) October 1, 2018Republicans only like state's rights when it's something Republicans agree with.— Irisrose (@Irisrose94) October 1, 2018What happened to all those crying #GOP states rights people— Peter Vroutos (@themothboy) October 1, 2018But if the justice department plans to hinder all states’ efforts to fight against the repeal of net neutrality laws, it has a lot of work ahead.	Liberal
Embattled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s contentious testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee last week is at odds with his own standards for how judges should behave.During a speech calledThe Judge as Umpire at Catholic University in 2015, Kavanaugh said that agood judge should possess the proper demeanor,keep our emotions in check, be calm amidst the storm, and to demonstrate civility. Kavanaugh also said to his fellow jurists: “don’t be a jerk.”He added that there exists “a danger of arrogance, as for umpires and referees, but also for judges. And I would say that danger grows the more time youre on the bench. As one of my colleagues puts it, you become more like yourselfand that can be a problem.”David Corn of Mother Jones dug up the full text:“To be a good judge and a good umpire, its important to have the proper demeanor. Really important, I think. To walk in the others shoes, whether it be the other litigants, the litigants in the case, the other judges. To understand them. To keep our emotions in check. To be calm amidst the storm. On the bench, to put it in the vernacular, dont be a jerk. I think thats important. To be a good umpire and a good judge, dont be a jerk. In your opinions, to demonstrate civilityI think thats important as well. To show, to help display, that you are trying to make the decision impartially and dispassionately based on the law and not based on your emotions. That were not the bigger than the gameTheres a danger of arrogance, as for umpires and referees, but also for judges. And I would say that danger grows the more time youre on the bench. As one of my colleagues puts it, you become more like yourselfand that can be a problem.”Kavanaugh also said that a good judgefirst and most obviously” cannot be a political partisan.”Watch the full clip below:During his testimony last week, however, Kavanaugh railed against a supposed left-wing conspiracy to keep him from the bench, going so far as to blame the Clintons for somehow orchestrating the slew of sexual assault allegations that have scarred his nomination.Kavanaugh also refused to answer questions, often lobbing them back at the Senators asking them, which many people interpreted as a method of deflection.Corn asked Twitter if Kavanaugh’s behavior at last week’s hearing upholds “his own standards for judicial temperament.”Does Brett Kavanaugh meet his own standards for judicial temperament? Look at what he said three years ago. https://t.co/F72B9YQtiR— David Corn (@DavidCornDC) October 1, 2018Twitter’s response: no.By his own criteria as well as by the Code of Conduct, Judge Kavanaugh is demonstrably unfit for a seat on the Supreme Court.— Tia Will (@medwoman1) October 1, 2018No. No, he doesnt.— Lisa Fybush (@LisaFybush) October 1, 2018No— Andi Goldie (@AndyGoldi) October 1, 2018No.— Thomas Carano (@carano_thomas) October 1, 2018He meets no one's standards.— Arkantart (@arkantart) October 1, 2018No he doesn't!— AMY MCCORD (@amccord92) October 1, 2018Well, no, no he does not.— Elinor (@Elinor27652146) October 1, 2018No he does not.— We, the Diverse  (@tsamspeedy) October 1, 2018I think not….,— d_moto (@deb_moto) October 1, 2018KavaNOPE— Kristen Spivey (@KristenSpivey2) October 1, 2018In the same speech at Catholic’s Columbia Law School,Kavanaugh reminisced about his days at Georgetown Preparatory School, where the students held a certain mantra.	Liberal
Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) blasted Senate Democrats on Twitter Monday morning for what he sees as obstructionist delays to confirming Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.Graham wrote that Democrats in the upper chamber lack are refusing to show Kavanaugh an “ounce of fairness” after the judge angrily denied allegations that he drunkenly tried to rape a woman during a party in high school.“How would you react if somebody accused you being a sexual predator, a gang rapist, and a bumbling stumbling alcoholic?” Graham asked after Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) said she was “really stunned by how Brett Kavanaugh acted” at a Senate hearing last Thursday.When it comes to Judge Kavanaugh, theres not an ounce of fairness left in Senate Democrats. How would you react if somebody accused you being a sexual predator, a gang rapist, and a bumbling stumbling alcoholic? https://t.co/WH8VDp1dnU— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) October 1, 2018Graham then accused Democrats of wanting a “political outcome” by demanding an FBI investigation of the allegations. Democrats want to “keep this seat open and hope they win the midterms,” Graham said. “Pathetic.”All they want is a political outcome. Keep this seat open and hope they win the midterms. Pathetic.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) October 1, 2018Graham is accusing Democrats of the exact same stunt Republicans pulled in 2016 with Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s nominee to replace Justice Antonin Scalia. And it’s not the first time he’s done it, tweeting earlier this month:“Requiring an FBI investigation of a 36-year-old allegation (without specific references to time or location) before Professor Ford will appear before the Judiciary Committee is not about finding the truth, but delaying the process till after the midterm elections.Requiring an FBI investigation of a 36 year old allegation (without specific references to time or location) before Professor Ford will appear before the Judiciary Committee is not about finding the truth, but delaying the process till after the midterm elections.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 19, 2018He added:It is imperative the Judiciary committee move forward on the Kavanaugh nomination and a committee vote be taken ASAP.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 19, 2018Less than a week later, Graham implied that Democrats were “coaching witnesses” to make Kavanaugh look bad.When it comes to stopping Pres @realDonaldTrump and his agenda there seem to be no boundaries.Whether its coaching witnesses or reporting thinly-sourced stories without proper verification, everything is fair game and falls into the category of  The Ends Justify the Means.'— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 24, 2018Graham said the delays in Kavanaugh’s confirmation process amount to “the total collapse of the traditional confirmation process for a Supreme Court nominee. It is being replaced by a game of delay, deception, and wholesale character assassination.”What we are witnessing is the total collapse of the traditional confirmation process for a Supreme Court nominee.  It is being replaced by a game of delay, deception, and wholesale character assassination.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 24, 2018Really, Senator?Obama nominated Garland but Republicans refused to hold hearings to consider Garland’s nomination.Naturally, Twitter went ballistic on Graham for his flagrant hypocrisy.…said Merrick Garland.— Adrian Todd Zuniga (@atzuniga) October 1, 2018Hey Lindsey, speaking of keeping a seat open, remember when Republicans abdicated their Constitutional duty and refused to grant President Obama's SCOTUS nominee a hearing? https://t.co/UMtdzIFG46— Kat 4 Obama (@Kat4Obama) October 1, 2018Graham and other Republicans alsothreatened to denyHillary Clinton a Supreme Court pick if she were elected president.Their excuse was that since 2016 was a presidential election year, the next president should get to pick Scalia’s successor. Scalia died 10 months before the election, and the seat was left empty for more than a year until President Donald Trump tapped Neil Gorsuch to fill Scalia’s seat. Gorsuch was confirmed with several Democratic votes.Everyone is mentioning Merrick Garland.I have another name: Neil Gorsuch. We knew that seat was coming up. If Dem operatives were trying to stop Trumps nomsthats when wed have done it. But Gorsuch is not a assailant & liarhes just soulless & beholden to corporations.— Miss Alissa (@themstems) October 1, 2018We dont like Neil Gorsuch either & dont want him on the Supreme Court. We tried to make that as clear as possible. But he kept composed & didnt lie his way through the hearings. He doesnt have multiple women saying he assaulted him or hosts of people saying hes a dark drunk.— Miss Alissa (@themstems) October 1, 2018That was EXACTLY what the @SenateGOP did in 2016 with Merrick Garland.  This time is different: the @SenateDems are just trying to keep an unqualified perjurer and predator off the nations highest court.  If you can't see the difference or the @GOP hypocrisy, then #ResignNow— Capn Louie (@CaptainLouie) October 1, 2018Selective amnesia much?Here I'll help. Merrick Garland— Leah Wood (@lrwoodauthor) October 1, 2018MERRICKGARLANDYou wanker.— Mo Gaffney (@mogaffney) October 1, 2018POLITICAL OUTCOME? GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND. GARLAND.— ebonibex (@ebonibex) October 1, 2018MERRICK GARLAND!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!— Boston Frenchie *WE ARE ALL IMMIGRANTS* (@want2brd) October 1, 2018Thats what McConnell did with Garland. Do you have amnesia?— B. Justice (@zefirotorna) October 1, 2018Merrick Garland. End. Of. Story.— Linda  Horrell (@Lhorrell) October 1, 2018Republicans were totally transparent in their obstruction of Garland.If Hillary Clinton becomes president, I am going to do everything I can do to make sure four years from now, we still got an opening on the Supreme Court, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) said in anaudio recordingin 2016.Burr wasnt alone.I promise you we will be united against any Supreme Court nominee that Hillary Clinton, if she were president, would put up, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) said on the Senate floor in October 2016. I promise you.Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) suggested having eight justices instead of nine was no big deal:There is certainly historical precedent for a Supreme Court with fewer justices. I would note, just recently, that Justice Breyer observed that the vacancy is not impacting the ability of the court to do its job.Graham drew the ire of social media, and it was brutal.	Liberal
President Donald Trump frequentlyinsults women and loves to insult the press. So during a press conference Monday,he decided to kill two birds with one stone.When ABC News White House correspondent Cecilia Vega asked Trump for clarification on the scope of the FBI’s investigation into the sexual assault allegations against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, Trump hurled an insult right at her, enough under his breath that she couldn’t hear him, but audible for anyone listening at home.First, Trump claimed that Vega was in a “state of shock” that he called on her. When Vega said, “I’m not, thank you,” Trump interrupted with:“I know you’re not thinking. You never do.”You can watch it below:Pres. Trump says he'll answer @CeciliaVega's question about whether White House is limiting scope FBI inquiry into Brett Kavanaugh "later," preferring to talk about trade: "How about talking about trade, and then we'll get to that." https://t.co/Z0mDRU4a2I pic.twitter.com/RLKkqV6Q4f— ABC News (@ABC) October 1, 2018He then proceeded to dismiss her question, insisting that questions be on the topic of trade, but it was the random insult that had people on Twitter fuming.He was disrespectful and condescending in her comment towards @CeciliaVega even before she asked her question! You never do is what he said referring to her not thinking. Appalling!— Moksha Lim (@MokshaLim) October 1, 2018Right after he told her that she never thinks. He is such a child.— Barb (@barbara_1965) October 1, 2018And says to her "I know you're not thinking, you never do." Yes, we heard it.— Noreen "Don't Go Gently, Go Laughing"  Braman (@NoreenBLaughter) October 1, 2018How about his comment!  I know you arent thinking, you never do . Where is the outrage here ABC to your own reporter? To a woman, our president is a pathetic jerk.— rottentothecori (@rottentothecori) October 1, 2018Some insisted that Vega was in the wrong for asking the question instead of one regarding trade.Bull. It is a trade press conference. The 2nd or 3rd question should not be about Kavanaugh. He said he will do that at the end.— Diane M (@D1aneMontana) October 1, 2018Then Vega herself clarified that that was not the case.A news conference means you get to ask whatever question you want to ask. #FirstAmendment— Cecilia Vega (@CeciliaVega) October 1, 2018The president eventually responded reluctantly to Vega’s question.In pair of testy exchanges, Pres. Trump at first declines to answer @CeciliaVega's question on Kavanaugh inquiry, preferring to talk trade.He later told her "the FBI should do what they have to do to get the answer," adding "my White House will do whatever the senators want." pic.twitter.com/oabZXZA2Sd— ABC News (@ABC) October 1, 2018It’s unsurprising that, even in a trade press conference, the Kavanaugh nomination would get the bulk of the attention.	Liberal
In a wide-ranging press conference Monday, one of the claims made by President Donald Trump involved the Thursday and Friday testimony of his Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh. Kavanaugh testified under oath before the Senate Judiciary Committee as part of his SCOTUS confirmation hearing.Trump stated Kavanaugh admitted to a serious drinking problem when he was underage and drinking illegally in high school and college.Watch the President’s statement here.President Trump on watching Judge Kavanaugh testify:I watched a man saying that he did have difficulty as a young man with drink. pic.twitter.com/5OnCzXt0lB NBC News (@NBCNews) October 1, 2018Trump characterizing Kavanaughs Senate testimony: He did have difficulty as a young man w/drink(ing) John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) October 1, 2018However those who watched Kavanaugh’s testimony refuted the President’s claim.Correct me if I’m wrong, but I don’t recall Kavanaugh saying he had “difficulty” with drinking. He tried to convey the opposite. https://t.co/VdiJOAm0Nc Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) October 1, 2018you are correct. Trump said it. Kavanaugh didnt. signal, you think? John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) October 1, 2018Well then I dont know what hearing @realDonaldTrump watched because in Brett Kavanaughs hearing he ABSOLUTELY DID NOT say that. In fact, quite the opposite. #StopKavanaugh The Dose of Reality (@TheDoseTweets) October 1, 2018Not his testimony under oath. Bele (@tomservo10) October 1, 2018Did Trump miss how Kavanaugh went after Senator Klobuchar when she tried to ask about his drinking? Blue (@blueWRL) October 1, 2018The opposite  as #Kavanaugh clearly stated that he had NO difficulty drinking at ANY age. However he did have difficulty doing the opposite. #KavaNO   (@aa_tweeter) October 1, 2018People speculated as to why Trump would expose his own nominee to ridicule for lying under oath about his drinking problems while still under the legal age to drink.Right! So is trump trying to give himself an out when report comes back or is he just the stumble bum he seems? Its always so hard to tell! OhhDindi (@DindiOhh) October 1, 2018In fact, Kavanaugh lied and said just the opposite Leonce Gaiter (@leonceg) October 1, 2018Trump knows more than we do.Kavanaugh was a binge drinker. A consequence of Binge drinking is blackouts. Kim Budanit (@kimbudant) October 1, 2018So, even Trump knows Kavanaugh lied under oath. #KavaNOPE Leslie Anne Wells (@Well1la) October 1, 2018Oh, so he just admitted what Kavanaugh denied under oath? Leigh Crosby (@teaandmagnolias) October 1, 2018Ive been saying this, that they should have never tried to argue his innocence but own up to the accusations and rehabilitate his image. Maybe say hes learned from his experiences and has repented or something. But now its too late because of all the lies. Sel (@SelHudson) October 1, 2018Exactly. But he followed the gop double down deny everything philosophy. ladydi80 (@ladydi1980) October 1, 2018Correct me if I’m wrong, but I don’t recall Kavanaugh saying he had “difficulty” with drinking. He tried to convey the opposite. https://t.co/VdiJOAm0Nc Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) October 1, 2018that is literally not at all the message that Kav was putting out there. Didn’t suggest he had a problem that he’s conquered, nor did he suggest that anything has changed. pic.twitter.com/NXxE3KAbt5 Jombie (@jrtoastyman) October 1, 2018Right! He just likes beer, dammit! OhhDindi (@DindiOhh) October 1, 2018He certainly showed us he has anger problems. StillHopeful (@Hope_Persists) October 1, 2018Guess who else knows Brett has an issue with drinking and hostile temper? His wife. pic.twitter.com/WJKGpvnMA0 Christina Moore (@Cmoore704) October 1, 2018What eluded the consciousness of @realDonaldTrump was that the fact of his drinking problem, and specifically, its degree of a problem, are material facts in the allegations against Brett Kavanaugh, and Brett lied about his problem. #WeDontBelieveYou, #GOPLiars! (@SharperBeing) October 1, 2018you’re in trouble if even Trump isn’t buying your bullshit Matt the Brat (@Karna6e) October 1, 2018Many wondered if the admission that Kavanaugh had a drinking problem in high school and college was an attempt by Trump to rid himself of his embattled SCOTUS nominee.	Liberal
Speaking at a press conference held to announce a new trade deal with Canada and Mexico, President Donald Trump suggested a Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee was a drinker who he has seen in compromising and very bad situations.Trump made the comment after assailing Senate Democrats for asking his Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, questions about his drinking habits during a hearing stemming from the allegations surfaced by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford that he had sexually assaulted her when they were in high school.I happen to know some United States senators, Trump said. One who is on the other side, whos pretty aggressive. Ive seen that person in very bad situations. Okay? Ive seen that person in very bad situations. Somewhat compromising. And I think its very unfair to bring up things like this.Trump, while discussing the Kavanaugh allegations, claims to know a "pretty aggressive" Democratic senator he's seen in "very bad situations … somewhat compromising" pic.twitter.com/mkJ5tbO7iu— BuzzFeed News (@BuzzFeedNews) October 1, 2018When asked who he was referring to, Trump said hewould save it for a book like everybody else.”Trump added just now, when asked to name the Senators and the compromising position: "I think I'll save it for a book like everybody else." https://t.co/2CWchdkOuu— Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) October 1, 2018Trump was roundly criticized and even accused of blackmail.So… Trump is now blackmailing US Senators that disagree with him. Saying that he has dirt on certain Senators that would be considered compromising.Just says it outright. And we are supposed to be cool with that. How can this be legal? How????? pic.twitter.com/Kw95NDDTX1— MeganKelleyHall (@MeganKelleyHall) October 1, 2018So Trump just went on about having seen some unnamed Democratic Senator in compromising situations and seemed to be threatening to reveal it if this person keeps going after Kavanaugh.— Paul McLeod (@pdmcleod) October 1, 2018Trump just said at this press conference he was once in a situation where a democrat US senator with a terrible temper did something compromising. He actually admitted that, and we await the dismissal from the right that he even admitted it. It was live on CNBC I heard him say it https://t.co/OJru2Ck3zm— boy with pigtails (@boywithpigtails) October 1, 2018Others pointed out that even if a senator is a known drinker, they can be voted outKavanaugh is vying for a lifetime appointment.Trump is a lying POS. If he has seen a senator tipsy on occasion that would hardly qualify as "compromising."  Besides, if a senator is a known lush and they make bad decisions they don't have a lifetime appointment and can be voted out. https://t.co/K8m6uTu409— MrsLakey (@VtLakey) October 1, 2018Trump says Democrat is a drunk. " I happen to know some United States senators, one who is on the other side who is very aggressive …  I ve seen that person in very, very bad situations, somewhat compromising." Of course, the unnamed senator is not up for the Supreme Court.— Jonathan Allen (@jonallendc) October 1, 2018The president’s statement was only his latest jab at Senate Democrats. Last night, the president fired back at reports that he and his administration are limiting the scope of the FBI’s investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations leveled at Kavanaugh.Wow! Just starting to hear the Democrats, who are only thinking Obstruct and Delay, are starting to put out the word that the time and scope of FBI looking into Judge Kavanaugh and witnesses is not enough. Hello! For them, it will never be enough – stay tuned and watch!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2018Despite this, during the press conference, Trump did say thatit “wouldn’t bother me” if FBI investigators talked with all three women who have leveled allegations against his nominee. He did stress, however, that the bureaumust “go quickly” because Kavanaugh has “been treated horribly” and he’s been the victim of a “very unfair” process.“What his wife is going through,” Trump said. “What his beautiful children are going through is not describable. It’s not fair.”President Trump to @CeciliaVega on scope of Kavanaugh FBI investigation: "The FBI should do what they have to do to get to the answer.""I want it to be comprehensive," he says, but adds, "I'd like it to go quickly" for the sake of Kavanaugh and family https://t.co/kIp45rJeuW pic.twitter.com/e6BaYOOgjC— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 1, 2018He added: “This is our seventh investigation of a man who has reallyyou look at his life, until this happened, what a change hes gone through. The trauma for a man who has never had any accusations.So I want the FBI, this is now the seventh investigation.It’s not like they are juststarting.I want them to do a verycomprehensive investigation.”Other comments Trump made appeared to go further than Kavanaugh’s public statements on the matter.	Liberal
Amid the growing scandal involving sexual assault allegations against Supreme CourtnomineeBrett Kavanaugh, Donald Trump Jr. says he fears for his sons more than his daughters because of the potential forsuch claims to ruin their lives.REPORTER: Who are you scared most for  your sons or your daughters?DONALD TRUMP JR: I mean right now Id say my sons. https://t.co/lEDRUJcJjf— Peter Alexander (@PeterAlexander) October 1, 2018“I’ve got boys and I’ve got girls and when I see what’s going on right now, it’s scary for all things,”Junior told DailyMailTV in an exclusive interview set to air Monday and Tuesday.When asked who he was most scared for, Junior said: “Right now, I’d say my sons.”“The other problem is for the people who are the real victims of these things [sexual assaults]when it is so obvious like in cases like this,” Junior said of Kavanaugh’s first accuser, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, “it really diminishes the real claims.”Junior’s girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former California federal prosecutor, also weighed in on Ford’s accusations and the FBI investigation delaying his confirmation.“I think it’s important, in terms of doing an investigation, to get the facts out there and find out,” Guilfoyle said. “Its very tough thirty-five years later, but it doesn’t mean it should be ignored.”Guilfoyle added: “People need to be careful to understand the politics involved as well, and what motivations people may have,” implying that Ford’s story is a political hit job.Watch the full clip below:Social media didn’t take kindly to Junior’s comments, particularly because of numerous allegations his father, President Donald Trump, has himself faced of sexual misconduct.Yeah but to be fair… Don Jr inherited some rotten DNA. He doesnt have much under that slicked back modern hairstyle.— Horse Newt Gingrich McCallany  (@DENNISGRIMBLE) October 1, 2018Jr. Teach them not to rape.— Wanda (@wcsek) October 1, 2018Well sure, if I had so much 'rapiness' in my family tree I'd be worried too.— "Scare"ett Johnson (@stereofiasco) October 1, 2018Its hard out there for rich, white boys— Jermaine  (@jermaine_starks) October 1, 2018His dad is a sexual predator… Why are we shocked?— Boombastic (@Msb00mbastick) October 1, 2018Well huh…afraid they will grow up all assaulty like grandpa?— Tactical Pants (@snarksnide) October 1, 2018Why would he worry about his sons? With the Trump money they'll do what his daddy did and pay them off.— Dana Adams (@DanaEA24) October 1, 2018With good reason as there are such poor male role models in the Trump family.— Patrick O'Donnell Irish & pro EU, USA yes Trump no (@patrick1386) October 1, 2018Why should he be scared? His dad was caught on video bragging about sexual assault and nothing happened to him. Just deny, deny, deny, and plow on. Everything will be fine!https://t.co/l297fhrf82— Old Rant Dump (@TrumpinTheShark) October 1, 2018https://twitter.com/katyshuMA/status/1046736239599210496Others had some suggestions for Junior on how he could better prepare his sons – for instance, teaching them not to assault women.	Liberal
A Yale classmate of embattled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s says Kavanaugh lied about his drinking while under oath during his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee last week. Charles “Chad” Ludington claims he often drank with Kavanaugh when they were in school together in the 1980s.Ludington’s full statement was published inThe New York Times. We’ve outlined some key excerpts below.“I have been contacted by numerous reporters about Brett Kavanaugh and have not wanted to say anything because I had nothing to contribute about what kind of justice he would be. I knew Brett at Yale because I was a classmate and a varsity basketball player and Brett enjoyed socializing with athletes. Indeed, athletes formed the core of Bretts social circle,” he says.He continues:“In recent days I have become deeply troubled by what has been a blatant mischaracterization by Brett himself of his drinking at Yale. When I watched Brett and his wife being interviewed on Fox News on Monday, and when I watched Brett deliver his testimony under oath to the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday, I cringed.”“For the fact is, at Yale, and I can speak to no other times, Brett was a frequent drinker, and a heavy drinker.”“I know, because, especially in our first two years of college, I often drank with him,” he clarifies. “On many occasions I heard Brett slur his words and saw him staggering from alcohol consumption, not all of which was beer.”“When Brett got drunk, he was often belligerent and aggressive.”“On one of the last occasions I purposely socialized with Brett, I witnessed him respond to a semi-hostile remark, not by defusing the situation, but by throwing his beer in the mans face and starting a fight that ended with one of our mutual friends in jail.”Ludington then states he does not think Kavanaugh’s heavy drinking at 18 or even once he could legally drink at age 21 should disqualify him. As they both drank together at that time, Ludington believes that to say otherwise would be hypocritical of him.However, he does take exception to Kavanaugh lying under oath and during a nationally broadcast interview at that. Ludington stated:“…I have direct and repeated knowledge about his drinking and his disposition while drunk. And I do believe that Bretts actions as a 53-year-old federal judge matter.”“If he lied about his past actions on national television, and more especially while speaking under oath in front of the United States Senate, I believe those lies should have consequences. It is truth that is at stake, and I believe that the ability to speak the truth, even when it does not reflect well upon oneself, is a paramount quality we seek in our nations most powerful judges.”Ludington made it clear at the end of his statement that based on his first-hand experience with Kavanaugh that the SCOTUS nominee lied in his Senate Judiciary Committee testimony.	Liberal
Kanye West’s decision to deliver a speech supportive of President Donald Trump onSaturday Night Live‘s season opener may have received significant pushback, but it appears to have endeared him to the president further.The president slammedSNL as “just a political ad” for Democrats but praised West, who donned a “Make America Great Again Hat,” as someone who is “leading the charge!”Like many, I dont watch Saturday Night Live (even though I past hosted it) – no longer funny, no talent or charm. It is just a political ad for the Dems. Word is that Kanye West, who put on a MAGA hat after the show (despite being told no), was great. Hes leading the charge!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2018West’s impromptu monologue came after he’d performed three songs. It never made it on the air.I wanna cry right now. Black man in America, youre supposed to keep what you feel inside right now,” he said. “And the liberals bully you and tell you what you can and cannot wear, where you and they cant not stare. And they look at me and say, Its not fair. How the hell did you get here? WellAudience members booed as West put on his MAGA hat.Actually, blacks werent always Democrats, he started. Its like a plan they did to take the fathers out the homes and promote welfare. Does anybody know about that? Thats the Democratic plan.Saying people can’t be controlled by “monolithic thought,” West pivoted to talking about comedian Bill Cosby, who last week received a prison sentence related to charges of sexual assault.You cant always have when you have a black subject matter like Cosby that you have to have a black comedian talk about it, he said.Its so many times that I talk to a white person about this, and they say, How could you support Trump? Hes racist. Well if I was concerned about racism, I would have moved out of America a long time ago. We dont just make our decisions off of racism. Ima break it down to you right now: If someone inspires me and I connect with them, I dont have to believe in all they policies.Comedian Chris Rock captured the end of West’s speech and posted it to Instagram.From Chris Rocks IG story, looks like Kanye gave a speech after NBC cut the SNL feed pic.twitter.com/mYpSxqbw9Z— Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) September 30, 2018A full video later emerged on YouTube.West claimed that he was “bullied” by SNL producers backstage into not wearing MAGA gear on stage.“This represents good and America becoming whole again, West said of the MAGA hat in the caption of an Instagram post he made after the show.We will no longer outsource to other countries. We build factories here in America and create jobs.We will provide jobs for all who are free from prisons as we abolish the 13th amendment.West’s behavior has opened him up to significant criticism.SNL musical guest @kanyewest says the 13th amendment, which abolished slavery, should be repealed. Yes, the 13th amendment also allowed for prisoners to be used as slave labor but he doesnt articulate that in his tweet leaving people confused and others delighted. pic.twitter.com/aiEPVH4up2— Yashar Ali  (@yashar) September 30, 2018Theres nothing more maddening than debating someone who doesnt know history, doesnt read books, and frames their myopia as virtue. The level of unapologetic conjecture Ive encountered lately isnt just frustrating, its retrogressive, unprecedented and absolutely terrifying. https://t.co/4jCFwB4T5U— Chris Evans (@ChrisEvans) September 30, 2018Kanye West, who said slavery was a choice, just called for the abolition of the 13th amendment.This is just terribly sad. The college dropout Kanye used to inspire young black men, myself included, and now hes embracing a President that  hates them. https://t.co/0VnpyLWy11— Ahmed Baba (@AhmedBaba_) September 30, 2018Kanye West just tweeted that he wants to abolish the 13th Amendment, you know, the one that ended slavery. If this doesn't stop y'all from supporting him I don't know what will.— Denizcan Grimes (@MrFilmkritik) September 30, 2018Kanye West is either…A) An expert trollB) A massive, disconnected idiot who actually wants to abolish the 13th amendment, which ended slaveryC) Dead since 2011 and actually being controlled by an Alex Jones lizard personD) All of the above https://t.co/13IQ0FgpTM— Emma Vigeland (@EmmaVigeland) September 30, 2018	Liberal
There was quite a bit of drama in the Senate Judiciary Committee on Friday when Senator Jeff Flake announced that he was only voting to pass Brett Kavanaugh out of committee to a full Senate vote on the condition that the FBI re-opened their background check into Kavanaugh to look into the various sexual assault allegations against him.Once Senator Lisa Murkowski backed Flake up in this demand, Republican Senate leadership — and ultimately Donald Trump — had no choice but to relent and request that the FBI do just that.But while many cheered this result, Fox News analyst Brit Hume took another tack, asking what Jeff Flake got out of the deal:So what, exactly, did Sen. Flake get in return for forcing a delay to accommodate an FBI update of Kavanaughs background file?— Brit Hume (@brithume) September 28, 2018Many on Twitter were dumbfounded by the tweet:Hume does not seem to understand that one does not need anything in return for doing the right thing. Decency is it;s own reward. There are literally hundreds of equally qualified candidates for SCOTUS.— RJ Regan (@rjregan2) September 29, 2018Corrupt Republican mindset on full display right here. Brit cant fathom a Republican doing something just because its the right thing to do. Republicans only do things in exchange for something, not because its the right thing to do. Shameful. https://t.co/0WDvWepAdW— Karl Fights Back (@hesanihilist) September 29, 2018And decided to answer his question for him:A soul.— Chris Kauker (@ChrisKauker) September 29, 2018A spine— medit8now (@medit8now) September 29, 2018Dignity.— Elmar Theveen (@ethevessen) September 29, 2018	Liberal
The drama of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation reached its mid-season finale today when Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) called for an FBI investigation into the sexual assault allegations against Kavanaugh before the confirmation vote in the senate. Though Flake still voted for Kavanaugh to proceed out of the Senate Judiciary Committee, the demands for an investigation were something Democrats and even some Republicans had been championing, and now the President has relented and requested such an investigation.Now, a viral photo is showing just how Committee chair Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and committee member Orrin Hatch (R-UT), as well as a mystery aide, reacted the moment Flake announced to the committee that his vote was conditional.The result is a portrait Michelangelo couldn’t paint.The look on @OrrinHatch  when he heard the news about @JeffFlake pic.twitter.com/iEimAWnLya— Jason (@jasonash_) September 28, 2018Let’s get a closer look:Themystery woman claimed the internet’s heart.Me right now pic.twitter.com/CTaagchh9a— Adam (@brainded) September 28, 2018The stuff memes are made of pic.twitter.com/mJclQOUEJs— Marlon Weems (@GeekTrader) September 28, 2018THIS LADY 2020!— Lorca Damon (@LorcaDamon) September 28, 2018Yes to this queen.— Liz Hammonds (@LizHammonds) September 28, 2018While the mystery woman is certainly the star of this photo, Hatch and Grassley weren’t forgotten either.@OrrinHatch doesn't look too "pleasing" here.— Traci DeFazio (@jakeandikesmom) September 28, 2018.@OrrinHatch is my senator and he's the absolute worst. He exclusive represents his own interests and clearly has hardly any respect for women— au(s)tumn  (@austenclement) September 28, 2018Many were comparing the two senators with other famous duos.Here are Grassley and Hatch. Do they look happy? pic.twitter.com/8UUrTc2W1B— Frida Ghitis (@FridaGhitis) September 28, 2018live look at Hatch and Grassley pic.twitter.com/CxeQSYDWPA— John Kerr (@JohnnyHeatWave) September 28, 2018Live shot of Hatch and Grassley sitting alone in the chamber #DelayTheVote #KavanaughVote #KavanaughHearings pic.twitter.com/yh60i68rZs— Katie P (@applezismypal) September 28, 2018Chuck Grassley and Orrin Hatch #dumbanddumber pic.twitter.com/inCUBCQI5M— Vitus Bering (@whiskeyshackle) September 27, 2018While Jeff Flake was seen as the sole swing vote on the Senate Judiciary Committee, he announced his support for Kavanaugh and it seemed like hope was lost.	Liberal
In a statement, Heather Gerken, the dean of Yale Law School, where Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh earned his degree, said the confirmation process should be halted in the best interest of the Supreme Court.I join the American Bar Association in calling for an additional investigation into allegations made against Judge Kavanaugh. Proceeding with the confirmation process without further investigation is not in the best interest of the Court or our profession, the statement read.Dean Gerken Joins the ABA in Calling for Further Investigation. pic.twitter.com/SYAsVHwsi7— Yale Law School (@YaleLawSch) September 28, 2018Gerken’s statement deals a significant blow to the embattled Kavanaugh, whose testimony yesterday before the Senate Judiciary Committee opened him up to criticisms that he lacks the judicial temperament to preside over cases on the nation’s highest court.The statement quickly took social media storm amid calls for Senators Susan Collins (D-ME) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ), who are important swing votes,not to allow Kavanaugh’s nomination to proceed. It also comes just after the American Bar Association (ABA) also called for the FBI to investigate the claums brought forward by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who alleges Kavanaugh assaulted her when they were both in high school.The biggest prize for a law school is to have an alum land on the Supreme Court. Yet Yale Law School is urging a delay in Kavanaugh's confirmation for further investigation. Wow. https://t.co/LEiZ82c0K1— David Corn (@DavidCornDC) September 28, 2018KAVANAUGH: "I have the well unanimous, well-qualified rating from the ABA"  ABA: Delay the vote for an FBI investigation.KAVANAUGH: "I got into Yale Law School. Thats the #1 law school in the country."  YALE LAW DEAN: "I join the ABA in calling for add'l investigation"— Jesse Lehrich (@JesseLehrich) September 28, 2018So the Jesuits, the ABA, & Yale Law School have all come out against Kavanaugh or called for an FBI investigation. At this point if Budweiser comes out against Kavanaugh he's lost everything important in his life— Adam Blickstein (@AdamBlickstein) September 28, 2018Kavanaugh yesterday in his testimony highlighted 1. Yale Law School and 2. his American Bar Association ratingThe ABA and the Yale Law School dean are now both calling for more investigation into the allegations against Kavanaugh before moving ahead with his confirmation https://t.co/8XN0UJcZ4Z— Mark Berman (@markberman) September 28, 2018Yale’s statement also came amid protests from its student body, which has also supported calls for an investigation. Yale officials also canceled classes to accommodate student demonstrators.Yale Law School students fill a hallway sitting in silent protest over allegations that Brett Kavanaugh assaulted at least 2 women. pic.twitter.com/uxUwKoZkCT— Kent Pierce (@kentpierce8) September 24, 2018Students walking out of Yale Law School building as part of their protest demanding investigation of accusations against Kavanaugh pic.twitter.com/3gBFaRAfjK— Rebecca Lurye (@RebeccaLurye) September 24, 2018Over a hundred Yale Students are gathering in the halls of Congress in protest against corrupt Kavanaughs nomination and in front of the offices of GOPers to tell them to vote no. pic.twitter.com/1Jle8pL9ln— Ricky Davila (@TheRickyDavila) September 24, 2018The allegations of sexual misconduct against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh are rightly causing deep concern at Yale Law School and across the country, Gerken said in a statement earlier this week.As dean, I cannot take a position on the nomination, but I am so proud of the work our community is doing to engage with these issues, Gerken said, and I stand with them in supporting the importance of fair process, the rule of law and the integrity of the legal system.	Liberal
Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) on Friday demanded a week-long delay of the Senate floor vote to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court so the FBI can have the opportunity to investigate allegations of sexual assault that have imperiled the judge’s nomination.Brett Kavanaugh's Supreme Court confirmation has hit major snag after Sen. Jeff Flake said it would be proper to delay the floor vote for an FBI investigation https://t.co/9bu4BTZGgj pic.twitter.com/gg8088T6ox— POLITICO (@politico) September 28, 2018I think it would be proper to delay the floor vote for up to but not more than one week in order to let the FBI do an investigation limited in time and scope, Flake said to his colleagues. “We ought to do what can to make sure we do all due diligence with a nomination this important.”Flake praised Committee chairman, Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), for “delaying the vote in this committee for a week” so that Ford could have the opportunity to testify. “So it’s with that agreement that I’ll vote to advance the bill to the floor,” Flake said of Kavanaugh’s potential confirmation.Other Senators widely seen as on the fence on Kavanaugh have joined his call for a delay.Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska:.@ckmarie: do you support Senator Flakes call for a delay and an FBI investigation? @lisamurkowski: Yes I do. It has to be limited in time and scope…I support the FBI having an opportunity to bring some closure to this.— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) September 28, 2018And Senator Joe Manchin, Democrat from West Virginia:JUST IN: Sen. Joe Manchin supports Sen. Jeff Flake's call for a delay in Kavanaugh vote for FBI background investigation.I applaud Senator Jeff Flakes decision to rise above the partisan circus on display during this entire process." https://t.co/xP6e3SjxqB pic.twitter.com/PQbQ8BKDki— ABC News (@ABC) September 28, 2018And now Senate leadership has responded. The Judiciary Committee announced it would request that the Trump administration instruct the FBI to “conduct a supplemental FBI background investigation.pic.twitter.com/8MzKWoMWlU— Juana Summers Markland (@jmsummers) September 28, 2018And Senator John Cornyn — the Senate’s number two Republican — confirmed leadership would allow for such a 1-week delay:BREAKING: Sen. John Cornyn: Republican leaders to allow up to a week for background investigation of Kavanaugh before final vote.— The Associated Press (@AP) September 28, 2018Twitter cheered Flake.Thank you @JeffFlake. This is a reasonable step and we appreciate that you proposed it. Unlike @LindseyGrahamSC who should be ashamed of his deplorable behavior yesterday— Ellen Levine (@Smilex3nc) September 28, 2018Finally— selena (@selena90878943) September 28, 2018Thank you flaky @JeffFlake — Julia T. (@JuliaTherese3) September 28, 2018Finally a republican with integrity!— Roberto Samfuego (@RobertoSamfuego) September 28, 2018Good for you for doing the right thing!— Kristy (@kcpeterson) September 28, 2018Thank you Sen.Flake— Munch289 (@munch289) September 28, 2018Wow! Finally a guy does the right thing regardless of party and gives potential victims some hope. @JeffFlake I am so proud of u my man! I am not a Dem or with the GOP, so this gives me hope as well!— Warren Pughsley (@CoachPugs426) September 28, 2018Thanks to Jeff . The right thing to do .— Samantha (@Harpo5391) September 28, 2018The Associated Press reported Friday afternoon that Republican leadership in the Senate agreed to ask the White House to give the FBI until Friday, October 5 to conduct an investigation into the allegations against Kavanaugh. This would include interviewing witnesses listed in Ford’s testimony, several of whom have signed sworn statements under penalty of perjury.BREAKING: Sen. John Cornyn: Republican leaders to allow up to a week for background investigation of Kavanaugh before final vote.— The Associated Press (@AP) September 28, 2018After a short period of uncertainty, President Donald Trump later in the day ordered the FBI to conduct an investigation that is “limited in scope” and to last no longer than a week, AP reported.BREAKING: In reversal, Trump orders new FBI probe of Kavanaugh, says it must be "limited in scope" and last no longer than a week.— The Associated Press (@AP) September 28, 2018People on social media are generally supportive, particularly because they don’t understand the GOP’s rush to confirm Kavanaugh.I hope they do investigate— d r l i s a v a l l e j o s  (@ExistentiaLISA) September 28, 2018*week goes by*GOP: "OKAY, FBI, PENCILS DOWN!"— Mnml Living (@mnmliving) September 28, 2018They now have names, dates and incidents to investigate. That's the difference.— Dr. Tina, At Law (@EnlitndBaloney) September 28, 2018At least they already have signed statements!   Should make it short and sweet.— Beth Ann  (@YukonNurse) September 28, 2018Kavanaugh had no been accused of attempted rape at the time so there was nothing to investigate. Now there is.— Powerful Mel Ankoly  (@Mel_Ankoly) September 28, 2018Given Kavanaughs extreme resistance to a supplemental FBI investigation … I wouldnt be surprised if Kavanaugh himself or Trump withdraws his nomination before the FBI finishes.— Nicolas Falacci (@NickFalacci) September 28, 2018This is good. If Republicans are confident in their candidate, a delay and background check should be no big deal at all. I'm definitely happy it's being looked into. This rush to confirm is highly suspicious.— Alicia M. (@ShopgirlAlic) September 28, 2018Wow. A whole week. At least its something.— Resistance@isntfutile (@Resistanceisnt1) September 28, 2018Before the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 11-10 along party lines to send Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Senate floor for a confirmation vote, Flake announced his intention to vote in favor of advancingKavanaugh’s nomination.	Liberal
Images from a meeting Kanye West attendedat The Fader music officeswhere he playednew songs from his unreleased albumhave people on Twitter confused and angry.Why?West’s mismatched fashion choices. The artist and designer showed up wearing a familiar red hat emblazoned with President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign slogan:“Make America Great Again”But that alone would not shock anyone. West vocally supports Trump. What caught people off guard involved the rest of West’s ensemble.The rapper chose to pair his MAGA hat with a shirt supporting former NFL player and current Nike spokesperson Colin Kaepernick. Trump referred to Kaepernick as a “son of a bitch” because of his protest over racial inequality and the killing of unarmed Black people by law enforcement.Twitter had a lot of thoughts on the matter.11am meetings, amirite @thefader @kanyewest pic.twitter.com/3gtkxzt4I6 Andy Cohn (@andycohn) September 27, 2018Kanye West wearing a MAGA hat and a Colin Kaepernick sweatshirt to the Fader offices to push Yandhi is peak cognitive dissonance and clickbait, but more importantly its a 0/10 fit (@broazay) September 27, 2018this? this right here? this aint it, chief https://t.co/L8GRbzmBv5 (@broazay) September 27, 2018I refuse to believe he actually wore this A Boy Named Sprinkles (@TrappinSprinkle) September 27, 2018Kanye West wearing a MAGA and a Colin Kaepernick t-shirtHere class is an Example of an Oxymoron.Retweet!pic.twitter.com/bHSqFjaRUG StanceGrounded (@_SJPeace_) September 28, 2018Kanye wearing a MAGA hat and Kaepernick shirt pic.twitter.com/4SyJyoI4Xy bhinestone cowroy (@wyliebyles) September 27, 2018Kanye is at the The FADER officers wearing a MAGA hat and a Kaepernick sweatshirt. Together. At the same time. Y’all. The system has really outglitched itself. pic.twitter.com/kyTTSWh0IK BoBo The Angsty Zebra (@yosoymichael) September 27, 2018Kanye is really wearing a MAGA hat with a Kaepernick sweatshirt. The level of disrespect is appalling. pic.twitter.com/IDVaLA9THG Brittny Pierre (@sleep2dream) September 27, 2018I’m really looking forward to never listening to another Kanye album again, Kaepernick sweatshirt with a MAGA hat. my god. pic.twitter.com/sK5wjIASv7 Jordan Zirm (@clevezirm) September 27, 2018Kanye West wears MAGA hat and Kaepernick shirt, defends Louis C.K. and Alex Jones:https://t.co/KDUzxmXlJw pic.twitter.com/zCzCialqbX Highsnobiety (@highsnobiety) September 28, 2018kanye definitely thinks he’s deep for waering the maga hat with the kaepernick sweatshirt lol EMERY OUT (@cosgrove300) September 28, 2018Kanye thinks wearing a MAGA hat and Kaepernick sweater together makes a statement and that statement is Im a dumbass. desert trash (@jenniferkieule) September 28, 2018Y’all I’m seeing a glitch in The Matrix: Kanye out here in both a MAGA hat *and* a Kaepernick hoodie.Get yourself to a hardline phone immediately because The Agents ain’t playing right now.#Matrix #ColinKaepernick #KanyeWest pic.twitter.com/K3f1r0wxjU Mattias Lehman (@MattiasLehman) September 28, 2018But apparently West had an explanation.	Liberal
A new class-action lawsuit argues that the U.S. government should cover mental health treatment costs for immigrant children who were separated from their parents. The suit, filed by a group of lawyers in Federal court, also demands unspecified damages for the children who were separated under Trumps now-defunct zero-tolerance border policy.The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts. This is just the latest move to unravel the damage caused by Trumps reactionary policy. Previously, a California Federal judge ordered the end of forced separations between immigrant children and their parents. That judge also ordered the reunification of families who were already separated.Many professionals agree that the children are vulnerable to long-term mental health consequences due to the trauma from Trumps policy. The suit states that the resulting trauma was life altering and it will continue to affect their mental and emotional well-being for years to come.”According to an official count presented in court filings in late August, approximately 500 children remain separated from their families. Officials, in conjunction with cooperation from the ACLU, have been working to reunite the children with the deported parents.The lawsuit asserts that simply reuniting children with their families does not do enough to address the underlying trauma that was initially caused by the policy. “The damage is unbelievable, and the focus has been on reunification because, of course, the judge has ordered that. But now it’s about restoration. And that is something the government is not taking responsibility for, but so desperately needs to be done, and we’re here to make sure that happens,” said attorney Jesse Bless.When the policy was initially announced, a number of prominent health experts and medical professionals spoke out against the zero-tolerance policy.According to Dr. Colleen Kraft, the head of the American Academy of Pediatrics, the policy was “nothing less than government-sanctioned child abuse. It’s creating a whole generation of kids who are traumatized.Although the focus is now on reunification, a great deal of long-term damage has already been done. The reunification process has been chaotic and has unequivocally come at a cost, said Beth Krause, a supervising lawyer at the Legal Aid Societys Immigrant Youth Project.	Liberal
While Brett Kavanaugh’s drinking habits have been the topic of national conversation, another parent’s words for him are particularly sobering.The eyes of all Americans were on an emotional Senate Judiciary Committee hearing in which Dr. Christine Blasey Ford and Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh testified regarding the sexual assault allegations against him. Emotions were high and tempers were flaring, especially from Kavanaugh’s statements, in which he frequently claimed his life had been ruined and that the last two weeks for him had been “hell and then some.”Now, Fred Guttenberg–whose daughter Jaime was murdered in the shooting at Marjorie Stoneman Douglas High School earlier this year–is reminding Kavanaugh just what hell is.Justice Kavanaugh your life and family are not ruined.  Try having a child murdered by a weapon that you refer to as "common use."  You will get through this and hug both of your children tonight.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 27, 2018Judge Kavanaugh, I listened to you talk of your life being ruined.  It is not. I listened to you turn yourself into a victim. You are not. What today showed is that you clearly are a partisan and do not have the temperament for the court.  Even worse, you are just a bad person.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 28, 2018After Kavanaugh’s exasperating testimony, in which he berated Senators and attacked the “frenzy on the left,” Twitter users thought Guttenberg’s analysis was spot on.https://twitter.com/Hope99455/status/1045463139809136640https://twitter.com/AmberLCurrie/status/1045463298584514562His hours-long temper tantrum was positively Trump-esque, and all I needed to see to know hes unfit. Beyond hyper-partisan; enraged, filled with contempt. He didnt even try to hide that. And all this after a week of practicing and preparing??? Yikes.— Amber Starr Currie (@AmberLCurrie) September 28, 2018This is everything Fred. Thinking of you and your family. I will keep fighting in your daughters honor.— Cara Jacob (@CaraJacob7) September 27, 2018Guttenberg’s Twitter bio states:My daughter is Jaime Guttenberg. She was murdered in Parkland Florida on February 14, 2018. I will dedicate the rest of my life to the cause of gun safety.Guttenberg and Kavanaugh made headlines together on the first day of the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings earlier this month when Guttenberg introduced himself and told Kavanaugh of his daughter’s murder right before a break. Kavanaugh appeared to refuse his handshakeand later in the hearings, defended the ownership of assault weapons because “they’re widely possessed in the United States.”Sen. Feinstein (D-CA) on guns: "Common use is an activity. It's not common storage or possession. It's use. So what you said was that [assault] weapons are commonly used. They're not."Kavanaugh: "They're widely possessed in the United States, Senator." https://t.co/irsDUUh69l pic.twitter.com/X1dWO7hcMc— CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) September 5, 2018Guttenberg isn’t the only one affected by the Stoneman Douglas shooting to speak out against Kavanaugh’s confirmation.	Liberal
Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, maintained he could prove his innocence regarding allegations of sexual assault against him by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford with the calendars he kept as a young man.Kavanaugh claimed he and his friends never partied during the week in the summer of 1982 since they all worked. However, his calendars showed a different story.And one month in the summer of 1982 drew quite a bit of interest during the testimony of Kavanaugh. But not enough.Here’s that calendar.Dr. Ford stated that the event where Kavanaugh attacked her with Mark Judge’s help was a small gathering attended by herself, Kavanaugh, Judge, someone named PJ and a friend of hers, Kavanaugh’s and Judge’s named Chris Garrett.And well, what do you know:I missed this before, but I was just looking at Kavanaughs calendar, and I noticed that hes hanging out on July 1, among a few other people, with PJ and Judge.Pretty amazing coincidence that Ford, before she saw the calendars, said PJ and Mark Judge were there. pic.twitter.com/8lXwiROHiO Matt Fuller (@MEPFuller) September 27, 2018One date on Kavanaugh’s calendar drew speculation based on Ford’s description of events: July 1. Here is a closer look at that entry.It says:“Tobins House  Workout / Go to Timmys for Skis w/ Judge, Tom, PJ, Bernie, Squi”Senator Dianne Feinstein tweeted video of Senator Sheldon Whitehouse questioning Kavanaugh about the date:Rachel Mitchell yesterday began to ask Judge Kavanaugh about the July 1 party where Brett Kavanaugh, Mark Judge and PJ Smyth were present. Republican senators then took over questioning Brett Kavanaugh. pic.twitter.com/XV8o6etqW1— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) September 28, 2018Republicans have repeatedly asked Dr. Ford for a time and a place of the incident. Its possible that Kavanaughs own calendar provides both. An FBI investigation would look into these kinds of details. pic.twitter.com/iKHUh9GlEZ— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) September 28, 2018Rachel Mitchellhired by the GOP majority of the Senate Judiciary Committee to do their questioning of Ford for themalso did some questioning of Kavanaugh. Until she asked about the July 1, 1982 entry.The reference to “skis” meant “brewskis”, the slang term for beer. The calendar shows this was a weekday gathering involving drinking, something Kavanaugh denied happened that summer.Part of his defense involved weekends being full of other activities so the gathering Ford described had to be during the week. But his summer weekdays required work so, according to Kavanaugh, no gatherings took place during the week.The questioning went:Garrett or Squi was Ford’s mutual friend with Kavanaugh and Judge. And this informal drinking gathering included a third person Ford named as a witness to her assault, P.J. Smyth.But Mitchell failed to properly follow-up on the July 1 event or ask why Kavanaugh lied previously about gatherings with alcohol never happening during the week in the summer of 1982. Shortly after these questions, Mitchell’s Republican employers took over.But people still want answers.	Liberal
During his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday, embattled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh touted the American Bar Association’s unanimous ruling that he was “thoroughly vetted” and “well-qualified” for a seat on the Court.Kavanaugh was grilled by the Committee for hours after Dr. Christine Blasey Ford shared her allegations that Kavanaugh tried to rape her during a high school party in the 1980’s.“For 12 years, everyone who has appeared before me on the D.C. Circuit has praised my judicial temperament,” Kavanaugh said Thursday. “That’s why I have the unanimous, well-qualified rating from the American Bar Association.”After Ford’s powerful account of what she claims happened 36 years ago, however, the American Bar Association sent a strongly-worded letter to the Committee Thursday night in which the organization requests the Committee votes only after an appropriate background check into the allegations made by Professor Blasey and others is completed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.”NEWS: The American Bar Associationwhose well qualified rating has been cited by Kavanaughcalls on the Senate to delay a vote on his SCOTUS nomination until after the @FBI conducts a background check on the Ford allegations. pic.twitter.com/UAbmT1kKqh— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) September 28, 2018Addressed to chairman Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and ranking member Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), the letter said ” the ABA’s respect for the rule of law and due process under law” requires it to push the Senate to have the FBI investigate the decades-old accusations.“The basic principles that underscore the Senate’s constitutional duty of advice and consent on federal judicial nominees require nothing less than a careful examination of the accusations and facts by the FBI,” wroteRobert Carlson, president of the organization.“Each appointment to our nation’s Highest Court (as with all others) is simply too important to rush to a vote,” Carlson wrote. “Deciding to proceed without conducting an additional investigation would not only have a lasting impact on the Senate’s reputation, but it will also negatively affect the great trust necessary for the American people to have in the Supreme Court.”Carlson added that allowing the FBI to investigate the charges against Kavanaugh would “demonstrate its commitmentto a Supreme Court that is above reproach.”The Washington Post noted on Friday:“The ABA, with 400,000 members, is the legal professions largest organization. Kavanaugh and his supporters have bragged about its favorable rating of the nominee, with Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) describing the imprimaturas the ‘gold standard.'”A vote is scheduled for Friday to move Kavanaugh out of committee so the full Senate can decide to confirm him to the Supreme Court for life. Senate Republicans claim they have the votes, with undecideds like Arizona’s Jeff Flake and Tennesee’s Bob Corker indicating they plan to vote ‘Yes.’Ford went public with her allegations against Kavanaugh last week, throwing his advancement to the High Court into question. Within days, two more accusers surfaced with stories that Kavanaugh had sexually assaulted them during his high school and college years.Both Ford and Kavanaugh delivered powerful testimony to the Committee on Thursday. Ford said she is “100 percent certain” Kavanaugh tried to drunkenlyrape her at a high school house party. Kavanaugh strongly denied ever assaulting anyone, often getting angry and flustered as he spoke before the Committee.The American Bar Associations leadership watched the hearing & saw what all smart, ethical lawyers saw:Dr. Ford was credibleBrett Kavanaugh was evasiveThe hearing made a mockery of due processGOP is playing politics with the rule of law & our future#DelayTheVote— Pice de Rsistance (@PieceDeReSister) September 28, 2018What is Kavanaugh so afraid the FBI will find…? — Pierre de Resistance (@aka_pierrecouvy) September 28, 2018Social media erupted with calls for an investigation, which Kavanaugh, Senate Republicans, and President Donald Trumphave refused to support.	Liberal
Fox News has fired contributor Kevin Jackson after he called Dr. Christine Blasey Ford and other women “lying skanks” for accusing Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct.Kevin Jackson has been terminated as a contributor, a Fox spokesperson said in a statement. His comments on todays hearings were reprehensible and do not reflect the values of FOX News.A Fox News spokesperson just let me know that Kevin Jackson "has been terminated as a contributor," adding that "his comments on today's hearings were reprehensible and do not reflect the values" of the network.— Justin Baragona (@justinbaragona) September 27, 2018Jackson was tweeting during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing in which Dr. Ford testified that Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her when they were both in high school. Ford recalled Kavanaugh held her down and grinded his body against her as he tried to remove her bathing suit.Jackson responded to Dr. Ford’s testimony with several sexually demeaning tweets which predominantly attacked her appearance, at one point describing her as “rode hard and put up wet.”Wow, #ChristineFord looks rode hard and put up wet, as we say in the country. Just peeked into this FARCE.#ConfirmKavanaughNow #TeamKJ— Kevin Jackson (@KevinJacksonTBS) September 27, 2018At one point, he claimed that the FBI should investigate “SEX PARTIES” at Dr. Ford’s residence:Holy Cow, a woman suffering from PTSD hosts STUDENTS from Google. FBI please investigate SEX PARTIES at #ChristineBlaseyFord house#TeamKJ— Kevin Jackson (@KevinJacksonTBS) September 27, 2018In a now-deleted tweet, Jackson said of Dr. Ford: “Dang girl, stop opening your legs and OPEN A BOOK!”Fox News contributor Kevin Jackson was fired Thursday after he called   the women whove accused Supreme Court Justice nominee Brett Kavanaugh   of sexual misconduct lying skanks. and this, pic.twitter.com/Bta5laYBrb— Crash Richardson (@CrashRichardso1) September 28, 2018But it was his tweets referring to Dr. Ford, Deborah Ramirez, and Julie Swetnickthe three women who have accused Kavanaugh of assaultas “Lying skanks” that prompted the strongest reaction.I disagree. Feminists are their own worst enemies, and enemy of women.Also, they want men to NEVER be believed. I'm not succumbing. TO HELL with the notion that women must be believed no matter what. Lying skanks is what these 3 women are, and we ALL know more#TeamKJ https://t.co/qGVJLTv6QI— Kevin Jackson (@KevinJacksonTBS) September 27, 2018Jackson described “leftist women” as “skanky for the most part.”It wasn't challenged, because Leftist women are skanky for the most part. More will be sued and made to pay for their liesGrow up Pupo! https://t.co/Dj8LMk8rWa— Kevin Jackson (@KevinJacksonTBS) September 27, 2018News of the firing spread fast.This just in: Kevin Jackson has been fired from Fox News after this series of tweets, calling women lying skanks. Good riddance.  https://t.co/g0MGqeABzE— Elizabeth Wagmeister (@EWagmeister) September 27, 2018Yes, FOX fired a News contributor over a #Kavanaugh hearing comment."TO HELL with the notion that women must be believed no matter what," .So said Kevin Jackson, a conservative radio talk show host and author.Who now needs a paycheck.— Rose (@RoseofArlVA) September 28, 2018.@KevinJacksonTBS Rookie mistake: Fox News contributor Kevin Jackson lost his job today because he outright called the victims of sexual assault "skanks" instead of just heavily insinuating it as Fox News executives prefer.— Michelle (@IMMichelleT71) September 27, 2018Fox News Fired Kevin Jackson for this tweet calling #Kavanaugh accusers lying skanksKevin Jackson deserved to be fired! This is why women who have been raped dont come forward! They are afraid of not being believed & being attacked again! https://t.co/0STc78ORxA— Independent Woman (@MeFeminist) September 27, 2018Fox News has been embroiled in sexual harassment and assault scandals before. The company’slate CEO Roger Ailes and former anchor, Bill O’Reilly, exited the network after accusations against them. Both men denied the allegations.Although Fox has since moved more women into significant leadership positionsfor example, the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, ad sales chief and public relations head are all womenthe network has been accused of condoning and perpetrating the exact behavior which compels survivors of sexual assault to remain silent.	Liberal
Four Republican governors called on the Senate Judiciary Committee to delay their vote on confirming Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court on Thursday following the testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford. Dr. Ford alleged Kavanaugh attempted to rape her at a high school party in the 1980’s.As a result of the testimony of #DrChristineBlaseyFord, three Republican governors have now correctly called for a delay of the #Kavanaugh confirmation vote:  @johnkasich @massgovernor @govphilscott.  #KavanaughHearings— William S. Currie (@WilliamSCurrie) September 27, 2018However the committee called for a vote at 9:30am Friday morning.A little after 1:50pm, all 11 Republican men on the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to send Kavanaugh before the full Senate.The 11 Republican men who voted for Kavanaugh:1. Chuck Grassley (IA) 2. Orrin Hatch (UT) 3. Lindsey Graham (SC) 4. John Cornyn (TX) 5. Mike Lee (UT) 6. Ted Cruz (TX) 7. Ben Sasse (NE) 8. Jeff Flake (AZ) 9. Mike Crapo (ID) 10. Thom Tillis (NC) 11. John Kennedy (LA) https://t.co/HzyLIX66Iq Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) September 28, 2018However, GOP Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona stated his “yes” vote hinged on an additional FBI background check focused on the allegations against Kavanaugh be conducted before the full Senate vote, but with a set timeline of one week.The Senate will decide if Kavanaugh replaces Justice Anthony Kennedy with a lifetime appointment on the Supreme Court.Governors John Kasich of Ohio, Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, Phil Scott of Vermont and Larry Hogan of Maryland all said they would like to see a postponement of the confirmation vote until the FBI conducts an investigation into the allegations against Kavanaugh.Hoganrunning for a second term this year in deep blue Marylandwants Kavanaugh’s accusers, now officially at three, to be heard. Hogan stated:“There are credible charges and big concerns. They need to be heard. They ought to take whatever time it takes to make sure these accusers are heard and he has a chance to respond to them.”Ohio’s Kasicha frequent Trump critic and viewed within some political circles as a potential challenger to President Donald Trump in 2020also called for an investigation into the charges against Kavanaugh Wednesday afternoon on Twitter.Given the questions and allegations surrounding Judge Kavanaughs nominationand the higher standards demanded for a lifetime appointmentthe United States Senate should not rush to confirm him, the governor tweeted. In the absence of a complete and thorough investigation, and hearing from all parties involved, moving this nomination forward would be a mistake.”He continued:“In the best interest of our country and the integrity of the court, the Senate needs to hold on this confirmation,” Kasich wrote. “Without an investigation, and with so many serious issues involved, I can’t support this nominationif they choose to move forward.”My statement on Judge #Kavanaugh's nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court: pic.twitter.com/zw53NY9yeL— John Kasich (@JohnKasich) September 26, 2018Baker, currently running for re-election in blue Massachusetts, tweeted on Thursday:“The accusations brought against Judge Kavanaugh are sickening and deserve an independent investigation. There should be no vote in the Senate.”The accusations brought against Judge Kavanaugh are sickening and deserve an independent investigation. There should be no vote in the Senate.— Charlie Baker (@MassGovernor) September 27, 2018Scott also urged the Senate to exercise caution on how they proceed with Kavanaugh, who if confirmed, would spend the rest of his life on the Supreme Court. In a statement to the Burlington Free Press, Scott said:“I’m not taking a position on Judge Kavanaugh himself, but we owe it to Americans to make sure that they get it right. It’s their obligation to do so. So take your time. Investigate.”Great, now why are you still a Republican?— Michael Love (@elkmovie) September 27, 2018About freaking time. Where was this statement a week ago?— Jessica Rushing (@lilnestingdoll) September 27, 2018Thank you @CharlieBakerMA !!! You make MA proud!!!!—  We can only Hope!! (@kismet7859) September 27, 2018Colorado Democratic gubernatorial candidate Jared Polis agreed with the Republicans calls for a delay on a final Senate Kavanaugh vote.	Liberal
Shortly after the testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford regarding sexual assault allegations against him, Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh took the hot seat to testify in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee.While Dr. Ford’s testimony was widely regarded as credible, measured, and ultimately human, Judge Kavanaugh appeared enraged, frequently interrupting senators and in some cases, replying to their questions with the same question.To many, a recently viral photo is summing it up well.every woman in this pic tho pic.twitter.com/6Y2SvY4YlU— Gustavo Luis (@verygooster) September 27, 2018As Kavanaugh appears to sneer, the women behind himincluding his mother Martha and wife Ashleyappear horrified.A closer look:Interestingly enough, nearly all the women in the picture support Kavanaugh’s confirmation. From left to right, the women are Kavanaugh’s mother Judge Martha Kavanaugh, friend Martha Cox Kaplan, wife Ashley Kavanaugh, friend Suzanne Mattan and former clerk Zina Bash.The moment is only a snapshot, but from this picture Twitter users read a thousand words.the faces of the women behind kavanaugh are absolutely unreal https://t.co/8wCtT4NHtI— w.e.b. da boyyy (@rodb) September 27, 2018So, filling the space behind Kavanaugh with women seems to have backfired pretty spectacularly. https://t.co/3ncpOXELcM— Sandra Damiana Swan (@damianaswan) September 27, 2018I wont retweet a pic of Kavanaughs whiny tantrum rapistface so heres two women sitting behind him at the hearing. pic.twitter.com/T3b842tGXb— Dr. Witch Hazel  (@HazelMonforton) September 27, 2018The women behind Judge Kavanaugh are wearing their thoughts on their faces. pic.twitter.com/s8nSd6gRja— Chrs arvl (@ChrisMarvel) September 27, 2018The faces reflect many of the thoughts shared by women on Twitter throughout the hearing.I think lots of usmen and women alikehave come across entitled douchey frat boys who regard women as playthings. Kavanaugh seems to fit the type.— Linda (@phillyeagleinmi) September 27, 2018It's pretty clear from this testimony that Kavanaugh is using the "Trump Sexual Assault for Dummies Playbook:DenyGet angryDemonize the accuserBlame the Democrats and ClintonsDeflectTalk about what a victim he is#KavanaughHearings #KavanaughHearingpic.twitter.com/PDAmMnmp9E— Holly Fero O'Relly (@AynRandPaulRyan) September 27, 2018Someone who works at a text therapy app tells me that theyve been overwhelmed today because of the Kavanaugh hearing.— Ema O'Connor (@o_ema) September 27, 2018There was a marked difference between Kavanaugh’s temperament and that of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.	Liberal
Thursday, many in the United States watched the highly anticipated testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford before the Senate Judiciary Committee during the confirmation hearing for President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee. Dr. Ford alleged Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her when she was 15 years old.But people also wondered if Trump himself watched the proceedings. The President’s preference for getting his news and information from television versus the printed word is well documented.Now word from White House sources say Trump did watch Dr. Ford testify, or at the very least Fox News coverage of the testimony.President Trump is watching Dr. Ford’s testimony at the White House, an official tells @NBCNews – @kwelkernbc MSNBC (@MSNBC) September 27, 2018The White House says Trump has been watching Christine Blasey Ford’s testimony. Is he watching on Fox News? https://t.co/f7X6TwF287 Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) September 27, 2018While the President can generally rely on Fox to give him good news, today’s coverage even on that network presented Ford as “highly credible.”Fox News’ Chris Wallace at the first break in Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s testimony: Her testimony is “extremely emotional, extremely raw, and extremely credible,” while cross-examination format “is a disaster for the Republicans.” pic.twitter.com/fHy0rcwAV2 Matthew Gertz (@MattGertz) September 27, 2018This bodes ill for the President’s nominee, which cannot sit well with the man himself. And according to those same sources, it has not.Person close to Trump says Trump is raging at how bad this has been for Republicans so far. Trump told people Ford seems credible, per source Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) September 27, 2018People found the stories of Trump’s anger over the way Thursday morning’s testimony went credible as well.I think we all are, if not for the same reason. Katchoo1 (@katchoo1) September 27, 2018@realdonaldtrump cannot handle the TRUTH he will be more comfortable when Kavanaugh starts lying and blows up when he is questioned. KeithLeBlanc (@KeithLeBlanc63) September 27, 2018He’s upset that this is bad for the GOP. He’s not upset that Kavanaugh(t) actually did this. GHill (@Z2221344) September 27, 2018Trump has a history of believing the last person he talked to. It wont last long. Solgud (@KrSolveig) September 27, 2018Credible just like the women who accused trump pmb50 (@pmb501) September 27, 2018What is striking here is how Trump is only concerned with how she comes off on TV, not whether or not she is telling the truth. Forrest Brakeman (@forrestbrakeman) September 27, 2018People could certainly understand why Ford’s testimony would upset the President.	Liberal
After being thrust upon the national stage having coming forward with sexual assault allegations against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford testified against the nominee in a highly-anticipated Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today.To many, Ford was as collected as could be under the circumstances, sincere, and ultimately credible. So much so that Fox News host Chris Wallace praised Ford’s testimony, saying:“This was extremely emotional, extremely raw and extremely credible.”He continued:“Nobody could have listened to her deliver those words and talk about the assault and the impact it has had on her life and not have your heart go out to her. She obviously was traumatized by an event.”He concluded:“This is a disaster for the Republicans.”You can watch the clip below:On Fox News, Bret Baier says hearing from Blasey Ford "is a totally different thing" than reading her allegations.Chris Wallace: "This was extremely emotional, extremely raw, and extremely credible…  This is a disaster for the Republicans." pic.twitter.com/aSbznSJdHC— David Mack (@davidmackau) September 27, 2018Wallace also mentioned that his two daughters confided in him about things that happened to them in high school. He asserted that teenage girls often feel compelled to keep silent about events like this.Fox News' CHRIS WALLACE says in wake of Kavanaugh allegations "two of my daughters have told me stories that I have never heard before about things that happened in high school & hadn't told their parents… I don't this we can disregard Ford and the seriousness of this." pic.twitter.com/5lKaTDo9Cy— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) September 27, 2018The statement comes just a day after President Donald Trump dismissed the allegations as a “big fat con,” while simultaneously praising Fox News’ coverage in an unhinged press conference at the United Nations General Assembly.The president was reportedly on a flight back to Washington as Wallace made the statements.Air Force One TVs on Trump's return to Washington were tuned to Fox Newswhere host Chris Wallace has been describing Ford's performance as "extremely credible." https://t.co/0wG3hbYPo2— Rebecca Ballhaus (@rebeccaballhaus) September 27, 2018Trump is currently on Air Force One inevitably watching Fox News where Chris Wallace said this of Dr Fords testimony: This was extremely emotional, extremely raw, and extremely credible…  This is a disaster for the Republicans."— Brigitte Bradford (@brig42) September 27, 2018Many began to imagine if Trump would be singing a different tune following this coverage.Fox News reporter Chris Wallace calls Dr. Fords testimony "emotional" and "Extremely credible." He goes on to say this hearing is a "disaster for the Republicans"  I wonder if Donald Trump has turned off his favorite channel. #IBelieveChristineBlaseyFord #IBelieveSurvivors pic.twitter.com/3UtJdSLrsh— Kelsie Taggart (@kelsientaggart) September 27, 2018Next hell be tweeting about Fake News Wallace.— PatitaMeans (@MeaningIsMine) September 27, 2018If he was strong enough or could get his little hands around his can of Diet Coke I bet it would have hit a wall already.— Livin the Teal High Life (@tealtimeB) September 27, 2018Sarah Sanders says he is watching. And there are also reports that he is furious about what he is seeing, and the fury is not directed at Dr. Ford but at those he feels led him to make this nomination.— CatteNappe (@Catte_Nappe) September 27, 2018Fox is famously Trump’s favorite network, speculated by many to be because of its conservative leanings and its willingness to mislead its viewers.Twitter took notice that Wallace made the assertions on the infamously conservative network.	Liberal
During a break in Thursday’s Senate Judiciary Hearing for President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham spoke to reporters. When asked if he still intended to vote to confirm Kavanaugh, Graham stated he did.A vocal supporter of Kavanaugh, Graham then added a statement about the confirmation process from his perspective. His comments took an understandably partisan view of the sequence of events.The South Carolina Republican repeated many of the talking points the President and Fox News use to defend Kavanaugh. He also tried to discredit the need for a full background checklike the one conducted on Justice Clarence Thomas after Dr. Anita Hill came forwardand attacked Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s credibility again.But just before pushing his way past the gathered reporters, the GOP member of the Senate Judiciary Committee called on his fellow Republican members to support Kavanaugh or “God help us as Republicans, because this happens to us, this never happens to them.”He then addressed his Democratic colleagues in the Senate and stated:“Let me tell you my Democratic friends, if this is the new norm, then you better watch out for your nominees.”Watch the video here.Lindsey Graham found his voice in the hallway and he sounds rattled.He’s pushing for the vote still and then threatened future democratic nominees. pic.twitter.com/3D9CtZ3C9N Red T Raccoon (@RedTRaccoon) September 27, 2018“I feel ambushed” — Sen. Lindsey Graham (R), visibly outraged, tells reporters as he ticks through a series of process grievances with Senate Democrats. Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) September 27, 2018Lindsey Graham right now: I feel ambushed… its as if the Democrats pinned me down on a bed and tried to rape me while their friend laughed and egged them on. Reza Aslan (@rezaaslan) September 27, 2018Graham did not specify if his threat included only future Democratic Presidential appointments to the Supreme Court or if he intended to threaten all future appointments made by a Democrat in retaliation.As for his claims about only the GOP being targets of accusations of sexual misconduct, people quickly rebutted the Senator.Lindsey Graham just falsely told a bunch of reporters that Democrats are never subjected to accusations of sexual misconduct, and warned them that if Kavanaugh fails, Republicans will gin up false accusations against future Democratic nominees to even the score. Wow. Brian Beutler (@brianbeutler) September 27, 2018Has Lindsey Graham lost his mind? Here are just a few Democrats subjected to accusations of sexual misconduct: First, Graham’s fellow senator, Al Franken. Also Bill Clinton, Keith Ellison, Gary Hart, Wilbur Mills, Eric Schneiderman, Eliot Spitzer, etc. etc. https://t.co/V7kB7hl0y8 Steven Greenhouse (@greenhousenyt) September 27, 2018Lindsey Graham was heavily involved in pursuing Bill Clinton’s sexual misconduct. also this is provably false as Al Franken resigned due to misconduct allegations so it does happen to democrats, and recently. Graham has gone off the deep end. https://t.co/KImCnbAOM0 Bills_Chick (@Bills_Chick) September 27, 2018It never happens to them [democrats].@LindseyGrahamSC You disingenuous hack, have you forgotten about Al Franken and Bill Clinton?As far as delays go, ask your pal @senatemajldr about that.I look forward to the pair of you odious cowards being voted out office. https://t.co/iX8kjQOA2k Steve Bryant (@SteveBryantArt) September 27, 2018As part of his indictment against Democrats, Graham also stated the review of sexual assault allegations against Kavanaugh amounted to a delay tactic, trying to push the vote until after the November midterm elections. However, Graham failed to acknowledge his own party’s use of delay tactics for President Barack Obama’s final SCOTUS nominee, Merrick Garland.But people happily reminded him.Oh @LindseyGrahamSC, did you really threaten the Democrats future Supreme Court Nominees? You mean you Senate Republicans will do something worse then you did with #MerrickGarland. You are despicable, and every word you utter is an affront to decency. pic.twitter.com/TkOZUiBIG0 Chaz Bono (@ChazBono) September 27, 2018Were democrats this upset & did they whine like Lindsey Graham when Merrick Garland didn’t get a Supreme Court nomination hearing? Kay Shan (@KHShan) September 27, 2018So what you are saying @LindseyGrahamSC is that you think Democrats have been playing politics with a nomination to SCOTUS. And, you think that is unfair. Have I got that right? Two words for you Lindsey, Merrick Garland. Never forget. #KavanaughHearings Jasper (@JMSim70) September 27, 2018Garbage @LindseyGrahamSC angry that Democrats are trying to delay past the midterms. To which I have a two-word reply: Merick Garland. Ronald Reagans Spinning Corpse (@SpinningRonnie) September 27, 2018I also have another two-word reply, but am just off a 12-hour suspension and trying to cut down on that sort of language. Ronald Reagans Spinning Corpse (@SpinningRonnie) September 27, 2018Graham’s threat of retaliation did not sit well either.	Liberal
Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) made an insensitive and seemingly tone-deaf comment about Dr. Christine Blasey Ford during a break following her first round of testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee.Hatch was approached by reporters as he exited the hearing room.“And have you found Dr. Ford credible?” Hatch was asked.“Well, it’s too early to say. I dont find her un-credible,” Hatch told reporters.“I think shes a very attractive, good witness, and that it’s way early.”Asked if he believes Dr. Ford, Sen. Orrin Hatch says, "I dont find her un-credible. I think shes an attractive, good witness.Sen. Hatch's spokesman clarified saying he uses "attractive" to "describe personalities, not appearances." https://t.co/zACQjdfQRd pic.twitter.com/x1XObzt0FO— ABC News (@ABC) September 27, 2018Clarification was requested by CNN’s Elizabeth Landers: “What do you mean by ‘attractive,’ sir?”Hatch replied: “Oh, in other words, she’s pleasing.”Sen. Orrin Hatch says its too early to say if Ford is credible.I dont think shes uncredible. I think she an attractive, good witness, he said.Asked by @ElizLanders what he meant by attractive, he said, In other words, shes pleasing.— Kaitlan Collins (@kaitlancollins) September 27, 2018A spokesman for the Utah Republican said Hatch used the word “attractive” to “describe personalities, not appearances.”Ford has been testifying before the Committee about her allegations that Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh attempted to rape her at a house party while the two were in high school.Outrage flooded social media over Hatch’s comments. Why would he use the word “attractive” to describe a victim of sexual assault?SHES RELIVING HER SEXUAL ASSAULT ON NATIONAL TELEVISION AND ORRIN HATCH CALLED HER ATTRACTIVE https://t.co/VbQAqLzTJc— The Volatile Mermaid (@OhNoSheTwitnt) September 27, 2018Attractive?  WHY is that even part of the narrative???— Erin (@ErinRF) September 27, 2018Attractive…. This is the GOP ladies— Jeffrey Evan Gold (@jeffgoldesq) September 27, 2018And there you have it. Misogyny alive and well even in the seriousness of this discussion. Does this mean he believes Brett Kanvanaugh could have done this because of her looks???    What a bunch of crap!!!! It should be about her testimony.— flavicann (@flavicann) September 27, 2018@OrrinHatch goes with comments about Dr. Ford's appearance. How about Dr. Ford is the smartest person in the room and we need to adjourn this hearing, yesterday. Orrin your knuckles are dragging again…..— Jamie Lindsay (@JamieLindsay) September 27, 2018So @OrrinHatch does this mean if she wasn't attractive you wouldn't believe her? This woman is telling the truth! #NoKavanaughSCOTUS— Lady_H (@Mzhelenp) September 27, 2018Misogyny much?  Attractive ???  What???— Mike Klein (@mikekleinca1) September 27, 2018attractive?  @OrrinHatch prolly not the best choice of adjectives given the circumstances.— BEACHLUVR (@SANDNPALMTREE) September 27, 2018Pleasing? What's this? An old '60s song? At least he didn't call her a "humdinger."— Jason Elias (@Zebop) September 27, 2018What does attractiveness have to do with the truth?— Debbie Foerstner (@Debbiefit45) September 27, 2018Holy hell, Hatch clearly returns to his 1950s time capsule every evening to recharge.  She is publicly sharing a traumatic episode that affects her to this day & his thoughts about her go to "attractive & pleasing"??He just doesn't get it, his retirement should happen today.— Denise Shearin (@DeniseShearin) September 27, 2018“Stepping on a rake” is a fitting analogy.Those old men just can't stop stepping on the rake.— James McCord (@suited_jokers) September 27, 2018 pic.twitter.com/0b0Vmhr8hb— Snarky Sparky (@sparkyphi) September 27, 2018 pic.twitter.com/m3Uu7BgPET— Jessica Brown (@jbrown_simmons) September 27, 2018Hatch’s lack of empathy for victims of sexual misconduct echo from 1991, when Anita Hill accused Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment before his confirmation hearings. He was later confirmed to the Court. Hatch was on the Senate Judiciary Committee for that hearing as well.	Liberal
On Wednesday, President Donald Trump gave a press conference in New York City to cap off his visit to the city. He came back to his hometown to address the United Nations on Mondaywhich lead to an awkward moment that people continue to talk about.For most pundits and members of the public, the President’s 81 minute wide-ranging press conference resulted in another swing and a miss. The general consensus in the press and on social media characterized Trump as rambling and even incoherent at times.But not everyone saw the press conference in that light.Conservatives on social media heaped praise on Trump. Unsurprisingly, they had a similar reaction to his widely mocked appearance before the United Nations.Charlie Kirkfounder and Executive Director of conservative student organization Turning Point USAtook to Twitter after the press conference to state:“This press conference is exactly why we fought so hard to elect [Donald Trump].”“Strong, decisive, clear, confident, with an American first vision”“He should do this many times a week. He is his own best advocate.”This press conference is exactly why we fought so hard to elect @realDonaldTrumpStrong, decisive, clear, confident, with an American first visionHe should do this many times a week. He is his own best advocate. Charlie Kirk (@charliekirk11) September 26, 2018Former political appointee of President George W. Bush and conservative commentator, Scott Jennings, posted:“I have to say – I think the president has handled this press conference pretty well. Hes in control, not jumpy. Clear in his messages on a range of topics. Made a couple of measured and careful statements on sensitive topics.”I have to say – I think the president has handled this press conference pretty well. Hes in control, not jumpy. Clear in his messages on a range of topics. Made a couple of measured and careful statements on sensitive topics. @realDonaldTrump Scott Jennings (@ScottJenningsKY) September 26, 2018And former member of the Trump administration, Anthony Scaramucci, tweeted:“He is doing a great job at this press conference. Will anyone write that? Will anyone report that on tv?”He is doing a great job at this press conference. Will anyone write that? Will anyone report that on tv? @realDonaldTrump Anthony Scaramucci (@Scaramucci) September 26, 2018It should be noted all three men tagged the President in their tweets praising him. That may be the audience they hoped to reach, as their reception on Twitter met a less than favorable response.The Twittersphere let each one know what they thought of their assessments of Trump’s press conference performance.	Liberal
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called out President Donald Trump on Wednesday for falsely claiming the United States had rejected a request to meet with Canada to continue trade talks.During a press conference at the United Nations, Trump was asked if he planned on meeting with Trudeau to untangle the trade mess caused by Trump’s tariffs.Trump said he rejected a request from Trudeau to meet.Canada’s “tariffs are too high, and he doesn’t seem to want to move, and I’ve told him forget about it, and frankly, we’re thinking about just taxing cars coming in from Canada,” Trump told reporters. “That’s the mother lode. That’s the big one.”President Trump says he rejected a one-on-one meeting with Canadian PM Trudeau: "We're very unhappy with negotiations and the negotiating style of Canada. We don't like their representative very much." pic.twitter.com/Vk1oXWBo2k— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 26, 2018Trump added: “We’re very unhappy with the negotiations and the negotiating style of Canada. We don’t like their representative [Chrystia Freeland] very much.”None of this was true. Trudeau never asked to meet with Trump, according to Canadian officials.“No meeting was requested,” Trudeau spokespersonEleanore Catenaro said.We dont have any comment beyond that.NEW: A spokesperson for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says no meeting was requested with the President. We dont have any comment beyond that.— Michel Boyer (@BoyerMichel) September 26, 2018The United States and Canada are mired in negotiations on the future of trade between the two countries after Trump imposed substantial tariffs on imported Canadian aluminum and steel earlier this year.Canadas concerns over the future of trade with the United States have increased due to Trumps threat of additional tariffs on imported cars and auto parts. The U.S. Census Bureau reported Americans bought $55 billion worth of automobiles and parts from Canada in 2017.Twitter,of course, was not surprised that Trump, yet again, lied about something easily disprovable.More of Trump's lies? Trudeau's spokesperson Cameron Ahmad said no meeting was requested. #25thAmendmentNow pic.twitter.com/YdYDVjlRWK— Mary (@BBlueCrush) September 26, 2018He lies about things so easily disproven. Trump is the most dishonest politician Ive seen in my lifetime- and that covers a lot of people. https://t.co/omMoCgV9hC— Alan Johnson (@ohioaj) September 27, 2018If no meeting was requested then what was the story earlier in the week about Trump snubbing Trudeau saying he didnt have time for a meeting. Something doesnt add up PMO— Jean Wright (@jeannie_wright) September 26, 2018Trump lied, no meeting was requested.— Jim C (@JimXfield) September 26, 2018Sham headline: Trump lied. PMO said no meeting was requested. Reporting around UN events stated as much but you put out the pathological liars statement as fact? Pathetic. Correction needed.— Under the Radar (@retail_recruit) September 27, 2018Why did you lie by stating that Canada requested a meeting with you which you denied. There was no logical reason other than to try in a failed effort to make yourself look in control. Youre not in control. And btw the UN was laughing at you…not with you.— susan ferguson (@susanferguson5) September 27, 2018The problem with this statement is that he's lying as usual and no meeting was requested of the Prime Minister.— Carolyn h (@Carolynh125) September 27, 2018Why did Trump so blatantly lie? No such meeting was ever requested by Trudeau.— Better Green World (@BettrGreenWorld) September 27, 2018Trump lies that he rejected meeting with Justin Trudeau, "no meeting was requested" – "We're very unhappy with the negotiations and the negotiating style of Canada. We don't like their representative very much," Trump added. _ Meet our representative, Chrystia Freeland _ #OER pic.twitter.com/kVrNDqmHIN— Don Gorges (@DonGorges) September 27, 2018It was reported tonight on @CuomoPrimeTime that PM Trudeau was asked if they requested a meeting with Trump – they said no – so he didn't reject shit!— Karen C (@KarenIsCanadian) September 27, 2018Prime Minister's Office said no meeting was  requested. How can you turn down a meeting your not asked for?— Derrick Kilfoy (@cornerboy102000) September 26, 2018The Canadians say that no meeting was requested. I believe the Canadians.— Storm Cilley (@StormCilley) September 27, 2018No meeting was requested by Iran either . TRump is such a buffoon .— Paul Setterholm (@PaulSetterholm) September 27, 2018PMO office says no meeting was requested.  This is just another bullying tactic.— Heather ForsythDowns (@NotetherHEATHER) September 26, 2018Trump, in an effort to fulfill one of his many campaign promises, has been trying to renegotiate NAFTA, which he thinks hurts American workers.	Liberal
1,600 men took out a full-page ad inThe New York Times tovoice their support for Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who alleges Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her at a party when they were high school students,in a move which mirrors a similar ad placed in the same newspaper by women 27 years ago to honor Anita Hill, whose testimony regarding the sexual harassment she endured while employed by Justice Clarence Thomas has taken on a sobering resonance in the #MeToo era.Pictured below is the ad women took out for Anita Hill in 1991, in which those who participated proclaimed they were “outraged by the racist and sexist treatmentof Professor Anita Hill, an African American woman who was maligned and castigated for daring to speak publicly of her own experience of sexual abuse”:27 years ago, 1600 black women took out a full page ad in the NYT to show support for Anita Hill. I was 20 years old. I put $25 toward the price of the ad and signed my name. pic.twitter.com/I9AvWsoeGm— Tayari Jones (@tayari) September 19, 2018And here we have its direct descendant:NYT full page ad today #1600MenCampaign We are 1600 men who now stand behind Professor Anita Hill, as well as Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, because we believe them.#StopKavanaugh #BelieveSurvivors #MeToo #IStandWithDrFord #GOPWarOnWomen #RiseUp pic.twitter.com/0nVxca3hEb— AdelH (@AdelH54) September 26, 2018“We are 1,600 men who now stand behind Professor Anita Hill, as well as Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, because we believe them,” the ad reads.“As men who are allies in the fight to end violence and harassment against women and girls, we write to express our strong support of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford for her willingness to speak out publicly and testify before the Senate about the sexual assault that she says was perpetrated against her by Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh,” it continues.Furthermore, the ad calls on “all men of good will to stand with us to ensure that Dr. Blasey Ford’s story is carefully and fully examined without bias or prejudice,” and “demands that both Dr. Blasey Ford and her story be treated fairly, impartially, and with respect.”The names, along with the current cities of the 1,600 men, are placed behind a centered text box. The ad was paid for by funds raised by The Phenomenal Woman Action Campaign. Yesterday, more than 3,000 donors helped the group exceed their fundraising goal of $100,000 by more than $34,000. Excess funds will go toward violence prevention programming.Several notable names took part in the ad, includingTallahassee’s Democratic Mayor Andrew Gillum, who is currently running for governor in Florida, andShin Inouye, the director of communications for the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights (a group which firmly opposes Kavanaugh’s nomination to the nation’s highest court).The ad quickly made the rounds on social media.Dr. Daniel Grossman, a clinical and public health researcher on abortion and contraception declared his support for not just Anita Hill and Dr. Ford, but for Deborah Ramirez (a former classmate of Kavanaugh’s at Yale University who alleges he exposed himself to her at a fraternity party) and Julie Swetnick (who in a sworn statementsaid she was a victim of oneof these gang or train rapes where Mark Judge and Brett Kavanaugh were present at a party in D.C. in approximately 1982).I am one of the 1600 men who signed my name to the New York Times ad. I still believe Anita Hill. I believe Dr. Christine Blasey Ford. I believe Deborah Ramirez. I believe Julie Swetnick. I believe my patients. I #BelieveSurvivors.https://t.co/0LheoIODSk pic.twitter.com/Ij9EWHk2GM— Dr. Daniel Grossman (@DrDGrossman) September 26, 2018Dr. David Surratt, the Interim Associate Vice Chancellor at theUniversity of California,Berkeley, did the same.Im one of the 1600 men who signed the @nytimes Ad…and we believe you. #Allies #BelieveSurvivors #1600Men pic.twitter.com/b7JlEX6IVU— Dr. David Surratt (@DrDavidSurratt) September 27, 2018Jodi Jacobson, the editor-in-chief ofRewire News, praised her 19-year-old son, who is one of the ad’s signatories.So proud of my 19-yr-old son, who is a signatory 2 this ad & who, btw–for all those who claim this is "boys will be boys"–actually understands the meaning of consent. You can actually teach that. // 1,600 men support Christine Blasey Ford in @nytimes ad https://t.co/uNtZK4YsAX— Jodi Jacobson (@jljacobson) September 26, 2018Others simply marveled.#DFord we love you. Today 1600 men took out full page ad in @nytimes to express support for #DrChristineBlaseyFor #maleallies #feminismlovesyou #itstime #TimesUp #SCOTUS #anitahill #karma #brettkavaNO #BrettKavanaugh pic.twitter.com/MpWiwcZ4P8— MotherSuperior (@FeministWomb) September 27, 2018Some men, getting it right!Sixteen-hundred men took out a full-page ad in The New York Times on Wednesday to voice their support for Christine Blasey Ford#standUP #resisthttps://t.co/s7iqXJfqYq— miscellany101 (@miscellany101) September 27, 2018Beautiful. https://t.co/VIKla3ly8r— Brandon Weber (@BrandonWeber_UP) September 27, 2018Dr. Ford is set to testify at 10 a.m. this morning. In her opening statement, released ahead of her appearance, she lays her feelings bare:I am here today not because I want to be. I am terrified. I am here because I believe it is my civic duty to tell you what happened to me while Brett Kavanaugh and I were in high schoolMy hope was that providing the information confidentially would be sufficient to allow the Senate to consider Mr. Kavanaughs serious misconduct without having to make myself, my family, or anyones family vulnerable to the personal attacks and invasions of privacy we have faced since my name became public. In a letter on August 31, 2018, Senator Feinstein wrote that she would not share the letter without my consent. I greatly appreciated this commitment. All sexual assault victims should be able to decide for themselves whether their private experience is made public.The hope for many is, of course, that Dr. Ford’s testimony will not be in vain. But Anita Hill’s was;the Senate confirmed Thomas in a 52-48 vote. This was the narrowest margin since the 19th century. And Hillhas found herself center stage once more now that the allegations against Kavanaugh threaten to usher in a repeat of recent history.	Liberal
A CNN appearance became rather heated when Republican strategist Michael Caputo, who once worked as the head of New York communications for President Donald Trump’s campaign, and political analyst Kirsten Powers sparred over the sexual assault allegations against embattled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.“I understand that something probably happened to Dr. [Christine Blasey] Ford,” said Caputo, referring to the Stanford University professor who alleges Kavanaugh assaulted her at a party when they were both in high school and is set to testify this morning, “I just don’t think Brett Kavanaugh was involved.” He then proceeded to criticize Julie Swetnick, who alleges she was the victim of a gang rape where Kavanaugh was present, for attending parties where “girls are getting gang raped by teenagers when you’re an adult.”It was after panelist Jeffrey Toobin accused Caputo of victim blaming that Powers weighed in.Enough I dont get invited on here to be called out by you like this. This is inappropriate.Former Trump aide @MichaelRCaputo clashes with @KirstenPowers over her critique of his argument in favor of Brett Kavanaugh https://t.co/T3kk3RZKl1 pic.twitter.com/k8A06zh3bq— Anderson Cooper 360 (@AC360) September 27, 2018“It’s just this tactic of attacking a very young woman. I just don’t understand the thinking behind it except for the fact that for a long time, certainly in the period that these accusations are about in the 1980s, I went to high school then: This was a time when women simply were not believed and everyone sounded like Donald Trump and Michael Caputo. If you’re going to ask why women didn’t come forward, that’s your answer, Michael. Just listen to yourself.”Powers was clearly not finished, but that didn’t stop Caputo from interrupting her numerous times in a bid to defend himself.“Stop interrupting me,” Powers said.“You’re going to call me out like that?” Caputo asked. “Let me tell you this”“Yeah, I listened to you ranting and raving for two segments, now you listen to me,” Powers replied.“You don’t call me out like that on national television”“I know what it was like to be a woman during that time period, and you don’t. This is exactly like”“Will you give me a chance?”“This is exactly like people like Michael always did when black people said that there was police brutality”“Enough! Enough! Please!”“They said that black people were making it up”“Enough!”“until there were videos of it”Enough I dont get invited on here to be called out by you like this,” Caputo said, flustered. “This is inappropriate.Caputo was heavily criticized for the exchange, which many characterized as demeaning toward Powersand women in general.@CNN @AC360 its time to walk the talk and take this misogynistic, verbally abusive guest off your list of panelists. His verbal attack and demeaning treatment of @KirstenPowers during this important conversation of womens treatment is unacceptable. #standup #timesup— Stephanie M (@MsStephanieM) September 27, 2018Watching this again, it's just so notable just how even tempered and mild-mannered Powers is in making her points and how Caputo just … isn't.— Eugene Scott (@Eugene_Scott) September 27, 2018@michaelrcaputo was shrill, hysterical & incomprehensible. He was raging, petulant & added nothing of use to the discussion. Maybe his doctor needs to prescribe something to help him control himself. How embarrassing for him. Please don't have him on your show again @ac360— Lindsey McBride (@Lindsey_McBride) September 27, 2018Becoming emotional, personal and yelling like in a sports trash talk page signifies that person has lost their reasoning and lost the debate….. game over!— Emilio (@tennisbum959108) September 27, 2018Caputo flipped out for being called out right after literally slamming a rape victim who wasnt even there to defend herself. How do you think she feels, Mike? Oh, right. You dont care.— Nicole David (@obbiecole) September 27, 2018If the exchange between the two seemed synonymous with the exact treatment women have long complained men perpetuate in the public arena, with Caputo in the role of the battering ram so insistent on getting a word in edgewise that he was willing to steamroll a woman in the midst of sharing her experiences, then it was lost on him, because he continued.“Here’s the downside to this: From now on, every mother of sons, every grandmother of grandsons has to fear for the future of their boys because of people like you,” he said to Powers, “who sit here and take uncorroboratedtestimony, uncorroborated allegations against a decent man and ruin him because it gets you ratings. Enough of that!”To that, Powers only said: “That’s bonkers.”It seems others are inclined to agree:	Liberal
While voters in the United States get no direct say in who gets appointed to the Supreme Court, their opinions should still matter to their elected officials.After all, their purpose is to represent the people of their home district. But perhaps more importantly to the politician, the people who elected them do have a direct say in whether they retain their own job.With midterm elections slated for Tuesday, November 6, 2018, incumbents and their challengers heightened their awareness of poll results. And right now, supporting President Donald Trump’s SCOTUS nominee looks less and less popular among voters.Although voter opposition to Kavanaugh exceeds his support in several major polls, the recent Politico Morning Consult poll noted a gender gap in their results.In the latest @MorningConsult/@Politico poll, among all voters  including Democrats, independents and Republican  there are gender gap in support for confirming #Kavanaugh.Overall, support for confirming him is underwater  37% oppose, 34% support. https://t.co/aPTiYqJszy pic.twitter.com/Lh8kuqls01 Eli Yokley (@eyokley) September 26, 2018Here is a closer look at the results.34 percent of voters support a Kavanaugh confirmation, but 37 percent oppose granting Kavanaugh a lifetime appointment on the SCOTUS bench. 29 percent remain undecided.While support for Kavanaugh remained fairly stable in Politico’s polls, opposition grew since the sexual assault allegations against Kavanaugh by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford came to light.Men continue to favor confirming Kavanaugh, but opposition among women continues to grow. And while women in the GOP still favor confirming Trump’s nominee 49 percent versus 15 percent opposed, that marks a drop from the prior week.Opposition to Kavanaugh grew among Republican women as well.Tyler Sinclair, Morning Consults vice president, stated:“Allegations of sexual misconduct against Brett Kavanaugh may have caused GOP women to cool significantly on support for his SCOTUS nomination. In this weeks poll, 49 percent of GOP women say the Senate should confirm Kavanaugh, compared to 15 percent who say they shouldnt confirm him. Last week, 60 percent said confirm, and 6 percent said dont confirm.”News of the poll results shared on Twitter by Morning Consult political reporter Eli Yokley drew mixed reactions.	Liberal
Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, left a vexing note for Dr. Christine Blasey Ford ahead of her scheduled testimony before the Committee on Thursday.“Good luck Dr. Ford,” the note from Grassley read. It was placed on the table where Ford will be seated during the hearing.Note left at Christine Blasey Ford's place at witness table in advance of tomorrow's hearing says "Good luck, Dr. Ford." The note was written by Senate Judiciary Committee Chair Chuck Grassley, an aide tells @ABC. https://t.co/loVKm5jlzU pic.twitter.com/7QC4rbQ7MN— ABC News (@ABC) September 26, 2018The ambiguous nature of the note has people scratching their heads on social media.Could Grassley be trying to be supportive? A couple of people think so.I think its his attempt to be welcoming ( I know, I know…), but it falls flat and shows how out of touch he and the majority of his colleagues are.— Peter W Beadle (@pwbnyc) September 26, 2018I actually think hes been pretty decent. I think hes been walking a tightrope between McConnell & his oath to office.— Lola Seven (@LolaSeven7) September 26, 2018Most, however, think it was highly inappropriate.this is reportedly the handwriting of Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) .. a note left for Prof. Christine Blasey Ford, testifying thursday at confirmation hearing for sup. ct. nominee Brett Kavanaugh. pic.twitter.com/O3VHP87hpM— Bill Ritter (@billritter7) September 26, 2018Id send it back with resign!— Donna Cray (@donna_cray) September 26, 2018That can be taken two different ways, hmmm?— Dee Kilroy (@arniebear2) September 26, 2018I was thinking the same thing – hard to know. Unnerving without sone indication of meaning.— Jen (@CuriousPotter) September 26, 2018Has that ever been done before? Why is he communicating with her before she addresses the entire committee?— Tori Griffin (@torigriffin) September 26, 2018Speculation over the meaning of the note is varying widely. Some see it as an attempt at intimidation.Sounds like intimidating the witness to me— CaliBohoChic (@CaliBohoChic) September 26, 2018He said almost the same in his handwritten PS.  I think its 51 percent putting her on notice, 49 percent welcome.  A kinder, more self-aware person would have written something like, Im sure this will be difficult, but we appreciate you coming to appear before us.— MichiganChick (@Michchick310) September 26, 2018He's gonna play that game…. Use his position 2 intimidate, a day B4!— Brenda Hawkins (@iheartwestbrook) September 26, 2018Intimidation no?— nicole swann (@SwannDives) September 26, 2018Epic Level Trolling…. ROFL!— Johnny Wishbone (@JWishbon3) September 26, 2018I would not welcome that note if I were Dr. Ford; particularly given Grassley's statements since her letter and identity were revealed. That's just a dick move, Grassley— Enough Is Enough (@TayTay_Bow) September 26, 2018Witness intimidation?— Creative Thinking (@ZZooflesley_ros) September 26, 2018So he's taunting her.  How very sophomoric.— Bryan  (@BeteUnitedFC) September 26, 2018If this isn't fake then it's a pretty transparent attempt at intimidation and nothing less. I hope she balls it up and hands it back to him.— ohreally (@JohnKageleiry) September 26, 2018Seems more like a threat— Kyle (@Kentroyals5) September 26, 2018People want to know what “luck” has anything to do with the hearing, where Ford will testify under oath that she remembers Kavanaugh attempting to rape her at a high school party in the 1980’s. Kavanaugh will also be offering his own sworn testimony.	Liberal
As Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee fight to proceed with the confirmation of Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh, Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) launched a new attack: a federal injunction which the senator hopes can delay a final vote.Though the focus of Kavanaugh’s controversial nomination has recently been centered around the multiple allegations of sexual assault against him, Merkley’s injunction is regarding a plethora of missing or withheld documents from Kavanaugh’s time with the administration of George W. Bush. Multiple Senate Judiciary Democrats voiced concerns over the missing documents during Kavanaugh’s initial hearing.Republicans frequently insisted that the release of these documents was not necessary, but judging by this injunction, Merkley firmly disagrees. He alleges that the withholding of the documents hinders his constitutional mandate as a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee to adequately advise and consent to Supreme Court nominees.Merkley said in a statement to Politico:The unprecedented obstruction of the Senates advice and consent obligation is an assault on the separation of powers and a violation of the Constitution. The President and Mitch McConnell want to ram through this nomination come hell or high water, without real advice or informed consent by the Senate, but thats just not how our Constitution works.Merkley announced the news on Twitter today.Im suing President Donald Trump & Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell today to stop the unconstitutional Kavanaugh confirmation process, which has violated the separation of powers. https://t.co/P7VkC3OQsf— Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) September 26, 2018Twitter users were all in.What can we do to support you?!!— Dana (@Dana1OSU) September 26, 2018Thank you for taking on the GOP #CultureOfCorruption Theyve abandoned their oath of office in service of a hostile foreign power. They seek personal power instead of serving their constituents & the Constitution. Thank you for defending democracy!— T #WaveCastOR  ACA enrollment thru Dec 15   (@teresa_atHome) September 26, 2018Finally a long overdue course of action from the loyal opposition to end this fatally flawed process of confirmation. The GOP leadership, and ranking members of the majority party on the Senate Judiciary Committee have prevented all attempts to verify Kavanaugh's qualifications.— Stefan Bethlenfalvay (@SBethlenfalvay) September 26, 2018Thank you for wanting to get to the truth and for wanting to fulfill your constitutional duties.— GOP (@NotThatGOP) September 26, 2018Amazing steps to take to make this fair to both the nominee & the victims. It's not a horse race.— keith johnson (@keith_johnson) September 26, 2018The grounds for the injunction may not directly mention the growing allegations of sexual assault against Judge Kavanaugh, but their presence is certainly felt as the stakes of the confirmation grow higher and its certainty more tenuous.	Liberal
A third womanJulie Swetnickstepped forward Wednesday to accuse President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nomineeBrett Kavanaughof sexual assault. Swetnickrepresented by lawyer Michael Avenattiprovided a sworn affidavit detailing high school parties she attended where Kavanaugh and the witness named in Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s allegationsMark Judgeboth attended.In an attempt to defend the nominee his party endorsed so stridently, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee took to Twitter Wednesday for the standard defense ploy of victim blaming and slut shaming. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina posted a series of four tweets in response to Swetnick’s sworn statement.From my view, just when you thought it couldnt get any worse, it just did.The lawyer to porn stars has just taken this debacle to an even lower level.I hope people will be highly suspicious of this allegation presented by Michael Avenatti. Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 26, 2018I have a difficult time believing any person would continue to go to  according to the affidavit  ten parties over a two-year period where women were routinely gang raped and not report it. Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 26, 2018Why would any reasonable person continue to hang around people like this?Why would any person continue to put their friends and themselves in danger?Isnt there some duty to warn others? Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 26, 2018I very much believe in allowing people to be heard.But I am not going to be played, and Im not going to have my intelligence insulted by the Michael Avenattis of the world.I will not be a participant in wholesale character assassination that defies credibility. Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 26, 2018Graham then made a similar statement on camera.Lindsey Graham on third Kavanaugh accuser: “If you went to a party once where people are being drugged and gang-raped, you wouldn’t go to the next nine.” https://t.co/f6RLVjEETx pic.twitter.com/zJHzV2PUWE The Hill (@thehill) September 26, 2018Swetnick’s description includes victims being drugged and raped by multiple young men who included Kavanaugh and Judge. In her sworn statement, Swetnick said:“I witnessed Brett Kavanaugh consistently engage in excessive drinking and inappropriate contact of a sexual nature with women during the early 1980s.”Swetnick stated at one of these parties, she became the victim.While Graham’s comments may play well to certain people, they likely will not sway anyone already opposed to Kavanaugh. And in the wake of the Me Too movementspurred by powerful sexual predators in Hollywood finally facing consequences, including prison, for years of abusespublic tolerance for citing the victim’s behavior or appearance as an excuse for the predator is on the decline.People on social media let Graham know his comments regarding Swetnick, Stormy Daniels and Avenatti were inappropriate.	Liberal
President Donald Trump lashed out at attorneyMichael Avenatti shortly after Avenatti revealed the identity of his client, Julie Swetnick, who is nowthe third woman to come forward with sexual assault claims against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.The president, who has in the last few days sought to undermine accusations brought to national attention by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, called Avenatti “a third ratelawyer who is good at making false accusations” against him and “is just looking for attention.”Avenatti is a third rate lawyer who is good at making false accusations, like he did on me and like he is now doing on Judge Brett Kavanaugh. He is just looking for attention and doesnt want people to look at his past record and relationships – a total low-life!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2018Avenatti soon responded, and he took particular umbrage at the president’s claim that he has leveled false accusations.“Like those crimes your fixer Cohen pled to?” Avenatti asked, referencing former Trump attorney and fixer Michael Cohen, who last month pleaded guiltytoeight criminal countsfive charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraudin a case which vindicated Avenatti’s client, the adult film actress Stormy Daniels, whom for so many months the president and Cohen had maligned. Cohensaid that he made the payments at Trumps behest to buy Daniels’s silence and influence the 2016 presidential election.False accusations? Like those crimes your fixer Cohen pled to? You are an habitual liar and complete narcissist who also is a disgrace as a president and an embarrassment to our nation. You are so inept that your best and brightest are Cohen and Giuliani. Lets go.— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 26, 2018It turns out many others agree with Avenatti’s assessment, and they also questioned the president’s judgment.What did your personal lawyer plead guilty to, again?— DDay (@qedigiv) September 26, 2018https://twitter.com/MrsScales1/status/1045007212941324288LOL, Avenatti got your lawyer investigated and Cohen named you as a co-conspirator. The lowest life is sitting in the WH and an installed, illegal president. You've got nerve to talk. #LiarInChief #Traitor #PutinBootlicker— Bernice Lewis (@blewis823) September 26, 2018Others accused the president of projection, pointing out that he has been accused of sexual harassment and assault by numerous women, and that he has a long history of defending men accused of sexual assault, a list which includes Kavanaugh, formerWhite House staff secretary Rob Porter,embattled Republican candidate Roy Moore, and Fox News host Bill O’Reilly.You currently have 19 credible sexual harassment or assault allegations against you. You have supported multiple candidates and nominees with multiple sexual harassment or assault allegations against them. Maybe @MichaelAvenatti is not the problem here.— Pete Austin-Small (@PeteLikesBikes) September 26, 2018Since we all know by now Trump's habit of projection, when we hear  "doesnt want people to look at his past record and relationships" we know who he is really talking about.— Galen Davis (@HappyJack06) September 26, 2018In asworn declaration, Swetnick, a former federal employee who lives and works in Washington, D.C., said she was a victim of oneof these gang or train rapes where Mark Judge and Brett Kavanaugh were present at a party in D.C. in approximately 1982.During the incident, I was incapacitated without my consent and unable to fight off the boys raping me, she wrote, adding that,I believe I was drugged using Quaaludes or something similar placed in what I was drinking. She says sheshared what happened with at least two other people shortly after the incident.Swetnick recalls meetingshe first met Kavanaugh and Judge, whom Dr. Ford alleges was present when she was assaulted,around 1980 or 1981. She described them as extremely close friends who were joined at the hip. She says she attendedwell over ten house parties from 1981 to 1983 and that she noticedJudge, Kavanaugh and others would attempt to spike the punch at house parties I attended with drugs and/or grain alcohol so as to cause girls to lose their inhibitions and their ability to say No.Kavanaugh and Judgewould target particular girls  it was usually a girl that was especially vulnerable because she was alone at the party or shy,” she continued, adding that she has a firm recollection of seeing boys  including Judge and Kavanaugh  lined up outside rooms at many of these parties waiting for their turn with a girl inside the room.Avenatti revealed the allegations against Kavanaugh earlier today. “Under no circumstances should Brett Kavanaugh be confirmed absent a full and complete investigation,” he wrote.Below is my correspondence to Mr. Davis of moments ago, together with a sworn declaration from my client. We demand an immediate FBI investigation into the allegations. Under no circumstances should Brett Kavanaugh be confirmed absent a full and complete investigation. pic.twitter.com/QHbHBbbfbE— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 26, 2018Swetnick’s declaration comes on the heels of an accusation from Kavanaugh’s Yale classmate Deborah Ramirez, who said Kavanaughexposed himself to her at a fraternity party. Dr. Ford, meanwhile, has submittedsworn witness statementsto the Senate Judiciary Committee from four people close to her who are familiar with her sexual assault allegations. Dr. Ford’s legal team plans to present these statements during a hearing tomorrow at which both she and Kavanaugh will testify.Kavanaugh, for his part, has denied that any sexual assaults ever took place and has not, despite the scandal, offered to formally withdraw his nomination.I will not be intimidated into withdrawing from this process. The coordinated effort to destroy my good name will not drive me out, the embattled nominee wrote this week ina letter addressed to Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), the chairman and the ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee.Brett Kavanaugh sends new letter to the Judiciary Committee, via @Arianedevogue: I will not be intimidated into withdrawing from this process. The coordinated effort to destroy my good name will notdrive me out. pic.twitter.com/XjvjN08CTr— Phil Mattingly (@Phil_Mattingly) September 24, 2018	Liberal
Michael Avenatti on Wednesday revealed explosive new allegations against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh and called on the Senate Judiciary Committee to hold off on confirming Kavanaugh until there is a full FBI investigation.Avenatti is representing Julie Swetnick, who claims she witnessed a slew of gang rapes facilitated by Kavanaugh and his friends while they were in high school. Swetnick is a former federal employee who has held multiple security clearances in various government agencies and is now the third woman to accuse Kavanaugh of sexual assault.In her statement, sworn under penalty of perjury, Swetnick says she was the victim of one such attack.“We demand an immediate FBI investigation into the allegations,” Avenatti tweeted. “Under no circumstances should Brett Kavanaugh be confirmed absent a full and complete investigation.”Below is my correspondence to Mr. Davis of moments ago, together with a sworn declaration from my client. We demand an immediate FBI investigation into the allegations. Under no circumstances should Brett Kavanaugh be confirmed absent a full and complete investigation. pic.twitter.com/QHbHBbbfbE— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 26, 2018“I simply do not understand why there has been no response to my emails,” Avenetti wrote to Davis o Wednesday. “This is an urgent matter that deserves your immediate attention and that of the Committee. Time is of the essence and we renew our requests in my email below.”On Monday, Avenatti emailed Davis asking why he had “yet to receive a response” to his requests for investigations that he had sent to the Committee.Avenatti went public with Swetnick’s accusations after Mike Davis,the chief counsel for nominations for the Senate Judiciary Committee, appeared to have ignored Avenatti’s plea for investigationsinto the allegations against Kavanaugh.Avenatti’s tweet seems to have drawn the attention of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Supreme Court reporter Ariane de Vogue reported that the Committee has“immediately started looking” into the new accusations and would like to know when Swetnick can be made available to testify..@Arianedevogue reports: Judiciary Committee has responded to Avenatti, per committee source, saying investigators have "immediately started looking" into the allegations & asked if his client Julie Swetnick is willing to speak to investigators and when she might be available…— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) September 26, 2018also: They provided Avenatti with a list of FBI field offices. Democratic staffers were cc'ed on the email to Avenatti.— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) September 26, 2018Some people are shocked that the Republican-controlled Committee may be starting to cave. In the week since Dr. Christine Blasey Ford became the first public accuser, Republicans have denigrated the allegations. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) says they’re a “smear campaign.”Grassley's actually taking this one seriously? I'm reading that right?— Rebecca Schoenkopf, Wonkette Editrix, King Of You (@commiegirl1) September 26, 2018They know they won't win a PR war with Avanatti.— Janice Newell  (@janicen) September 26, 2018Yeah, it's like his calling.— Deanna L. Pierce (@dlpierce) September 26, 2018In a normal world this should kill the nomination but we live in Bizarro World now. Julie Swetnick— Fruitvale Local (@fruitvalelocal) September 26, 2018Thinking republicans on the committee want truth is laughable … they will sweep this under the rug .. the sex crimes prosecutor will hammer her and Dems will grandstand smh  we need @MichaelAvenatti to question Brett— Mike mount (@Mount_mike) September 26, 2018Swetnick’s testimony is jarring.In her sworn statement, Swetnick says she met Kavanaugh and his “joined at the hip” best friend Mark Judge at a house party sometime between 1980 and 1981.Swetnick recalls seeing Kavanaugh and Judge at more than 10 parties, at which she witnessed the two friends “drink excessively and engage in highly appropriateconduct, including being overly aggressive with girls and not taking ‘no’ for an answer.”“This conduct included the fondling and grabbing of girls without their consent,” Swetnick states, as well as “mean drunk” Kavanaugh being “verbally abusive toward girls by making crude sexual comments to them that were designed to demean, humiliate, and embarrass them.”Swetnick says she witnessed Kavanaugh and Judge “spike” the “punch” with “drugs and/or grain alcohol” at house parties “so as to cause girls to lose their inhibitions and their ability to say ‘no.'”Swetnick states she avoided the punch because of the perceived risk, and that Kavanaugh and Judge would “target particular girls so they could be taken advantage of.”Additionally, Swetnick says she witnessed Kavanaugh and Judge “cause girls to become inebriated and disoriented so they could then be ‘gang-raped’ in a side room of bedroom by a ‘train’ of numerous boys.”Swetnick recalls “seeing boys lined up outside a bedroom waiting for their ‘turn’ with a girl inside the room.”“These boys included Mark Judge and Brett Kavanaugh.”Swetnick claims she was a victim of one such gang-rape “where Mark Judge and Brett Kavanaugh” were present. She says she told at least two other people about the attack, during which she was “incapacitated without my consent and unable to fight off the boys raping me.”Swetnick believes she was “drugged using Quaaludes or something similar placed in what I was drinking.” She added that there are other witnesses “that can attest to the truthfulness to each of the statements above.”Kavanaugh has continued to deny all the allegations against him.Patricia Arquette has been championing the victims’ calls for an FBI investigation.	Liberal
Attorneys for Dr. Christine Blasey Ford have submitted sworn witness statements to the Senate Judiciary Committee from four people close to Ford and who are familiar with her sexual assault allegations against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.Ford’s attorneys plan on introducing the sworn statements during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on Thursday at which Ford and Kavanaugh will both testify under oath.Dr Blasey Ford has four sworn witnesses that she told them of Kavanaughs attempted rape long before he was nominated. She didnt make this up for political reasons. https://t.co/V5DFpPMdh1— Derek Cressman (@DerekCressman) September 26, 2018The central flaw of the Anita Hill hearings was that she was alone up there, even though other witnesses could have shed light on her testimony and backed her up. The same thing is about to happen to Christine Blasey Ford.— Emily Bazelon (@emilybazelon) September 26, 2018The documents contain affidavits from Ford’s husband, Russell, as well as three friends who support Ford’s claim that Kavanaugh drunkenly tried to rape her while she and the judge were in high school.Dr Blasey Ford has four sworn witnesses that she told them of Kavanaughs attempted rape long before he was nominated. She didnt make this up for political reasons. https://t.co/V5DFpPMdh1— Derek Cressman (@DerekCressman) September 26, 2018Each of the witness’s declarations appears to corroborate Ford’s story.According to his declaration, Russell Ford recalled his wife sharing a story about sexual assaultaround the time we got married,” however details didn’t start to emerge until the two attended couple’s therapy in 2012.“She said that in high school she had been trapped in a room and physically restrained by one boy who was molesting her while another boy watched,” Mr. Fordsaid. “She said she was eventually able to escape before she was raped, but that the experience was very traumatic because she felt like she had no control and was physically dominated.”His testimony continued:“I remember her saying that the attacker?s name was Brett Kavanaugh, that he was a successful lawyer who had grown up in Christine’s hometown, and that he was well-known in the Washington, D.C. community. In the years following the therapy session, we spoke a number of times about how the assault affected her.”Mr. Ford said his wife was “afraid” Trump would tap Kavanaugh to replace Anthony Kennedy and that she was “very conflicted about going public with her story.However, in the end she believed her civic duty required her to speak out, Mr. Ford said. In our 16 years of marriage I have always known Christine to be truthful person of great integrity. I am proud of her for her bravery and courage.Dr. Blasey Ford. No investigation, they decline to listen to witnesses, and the Democratic Senators will only have five minutes each to interview Dr. Blasey Ford and Brent Kavanaugh. While their henchwoman will have 55 minutes to try to destroy Dr. Blasey Ford and 55 minutes to— I believe Dr. Christine Blasey Ford (@kelimewort) September 26, 2018Adela Gildo-Mazzon said Ford told her about the incident with Kavanaugh at a dinner in 2013 and told Ford’s lawyers about it earlier this month, documents show.During our meal, Christine was visibly upset, so I asked her what was going on, Gildo-Mazzon saidin her declaration. Christine told me she had been having a hard day because she was thinking about an assault she experienced when she was much younger. She said she had been almost raped by someone who was now a federal judge. She told me she had been trapped in a room with two drunken guys, and that she had escaped, ran away and hid.Gildo-Mazzon added that she has known Ford for more than a decade and considers her “a good friend.”Senate will resume Kavanaugh hearing on Thursday w/testimony from Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Kavanaugh & hopefully other witnesses. Hearing should be dignified, respectful & eminently fair. We expect no less from United States Senate.— NAACP (@NAACP) September 23, 2018Keith Koegler said Ford spoke to him about the alleged assault in 2016 while he was “coaching her son’s baseball team.”The two were discussing the sentencing of Brock Turner, a college student convicted of raping a girl behind a dumpster whose light sentence was widely seen as a slap on the wrist.“Christine expressed anger at Mr. Turner’s lenient sentence,” Kroeger said, “stating that she was particularly bothered by it because she was assaulted in high school federal judge in Washington. DC.”Kroeger received an email from Ford on June 29, 2018, identifying “Trump’s favorite for SCOTUS” as the person that attacked her.	Liberal
Ultra-conservative commentator Tomi Lahren is facing backlash after telling former First Lady Michelle Obama to “sit down, Michelle.” Her comments were in response to Mrs. Obama’s speech at a “When We All Vote” rally.The former first lady was cautioning against apathy in young voters:“If we want qualified people that we trust, then people have to vote. Because you cant vote some of the time and then sit out. You know, we saw that happen. We experienced that, But we had a great president.The assertion that the United States “had a great president” didn’t sit well with Lahren, who took to Twitter to chastise her.Michelle Obama said we had a great president. By what measure? Not in economic growth. Not in border enforcement. Not in strength on the world stage. Sit down, Michelle.— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) September 24, 2018Lahren reiterated the statements on Fox News.Lahren asserted:“By what measure would I ask that her husband was a better president than the current president? Not that kind of growth, not in poor security, not independent relations, not in making the United States strong and America first strong on the international stage again.”And Lahren would’ve gotten away with it too, if it weren’t for those Twittering kids.https://twitter.com/MrMokelly/status/1044687579474325504I know excessive exposure to bleach can affect your thinking, so I'll go easy on you. When Obama took over, we were at a point of economic collapse. He took unemployment from ten to 5 percent. An deportations increased, not decreased under his watch.— Spikewitwicky (@Spikewitwicky) September 25, 2018Tomi, 3 strikes and you're out. 1. Obama inherited the GOP's Great Recession and gave us 79 straight months of growth.2. Obama was known as the King of Deporting3. Under Obama the U.S. had strong allies and was respected by other counties. Now we're essentially ignored by them— LiarinChief (@TrumpDaGrifter) September 24, 2018Hmm besides gay rights, step in the right direction for healthcare, ending the war in Iraq/capture of bin laden, getting us out of recession, @BarackObama could speak in full sentences so that was cool.— CC (@c_campbell8) September 25, 2018Many couldn’t believe Lahren’s statement that President Donald Trump had redeemed the reputation of the United States on the world stage.The ridicule worsened when, only one day after this tweet, world leaders at the United Nations General Assembly laughed at Trump’s boasts that he’d had the greatest first two years of any president in history.totally. pic.twitter.com/8vU6Sd6fBg— Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) September 24, 2018The world laughed at your President today, Tubetop.— Charles Song (@CS70) September 25, 2018oh the irony.  Trump was literally just laughed at on the world's stage.  sit the fuck down tommy.— Jeff Lewis (@ChicagoPhotoSho) September 25, 2018https://twitter.com/BuiltToWin323/status/1044687019396526080And when it comes to public opinion, it’s fairly safe to say that Michelle Obama has Tomi Lahren beat.	Liberal
Three of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s Yale classmates who, along with others, initially endorsed him in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee are calling for an investigation into the sexual assault allegations against him.NEW: Yale classmates say Brett Kavanaugh untruthful about drinking, say he was a sloppy drunkonce wore a superhero cape, grabbed his crotch and sang Im a geek, Im a geek, Im a power tool.. Says one: "You cant lie your way onto the Supreme Court.https://t.co/UruyKpElFv— Aaron C. Davis (@byaaroncdavis) September 26, 2018The confirmation process should be conducted in a way that fosters trust in the process and the Supreme Court, and that seriously considers allegations of sexual violence, Kent Sinclair, a political independent who practices law in Beverly, Massachusetts, and Douglas Rutzen, a lawyer in Washington and registered Democrat, said in a joint statement.Fellow classmateMark Osler, a former federal prosecutor and a professor at the University of St. Thomas School of Law in St. Paul, Minnesota, said in an interview that the focus cant just be on the accusers and trying to bring their veracity into question. The circumstances need to be probed.Additionally,Yale Law professor Akhil Amar, who taught Kavanaugh and testified on his behalf before the Senate Judiciary Committee,called for a probe into what he described as serious accusations.“If the investigations facts and findings support him, then he will join the Court in the sunshine and not under a cloud, he wrote in the Yale Daily News, noting thata probe would be the best way forward.Other classmates have also come forward, saying that the comments Kavanaugh made in his Fox News interviewthat he had been a pious virgin who did not engage in drunken or lewd behavior with his fraternitydo not match the classmate they remember.Hes trying to paint himself as some kind of choir boy, said Lynne Brookes, a Republican and former pharmaceutical executive who at one point lived on campus with Deborah Ramirez, who this week said Kavanaugh exposed himself to her at a fraternity party and recalled seeing Kavanaugh drunk at a fraternity event.You cant lie your way onto the Supreme Court, and with that statement out, hes gone too far. Its about the integrity of that institution.Brookes toldThe Washington Post that she rememberedseeingKavanaugh “outside the Sterling Memorial Library, wearing a superhero cape and an old leather football helmet and swaying, working to keep his balance” and that he’d been “ordered to hop on one foot, grab his crotch and approach her with a rhyme.” She still remembers the rhyme:Im a geek, Im a geek, Im a power tool. When I sing this song, I look like a fool.Its a funny, drunk college story that you remember  at least, I remember, Brookes said. Of watching Kavanaugh’s career rise over the years, she said:I thought it was so funny to think thats the Brett who sang that song.Recalling Kavanaugh’s drunken behavior with Delta Kappa Epsilon, Brookes saidthere was no way he remembered all of the behavior she observed. Fraternity brotherspressured pledges to get ridiculously drunk and do ridiculous things,” she said.Kavanaugh’s college friendLiz Swisher, who lived with Ramirez for three years, said she was shocked that Kavanaughdenied drinking to the point of blacking out.“Brett was a sloppy drunk, and I know because I drank with him. I watched him drink more than a lot of people. Hed end up slurring his words, stumbling, said Swisher, a Democrat and chief of the gynecologic oncology division at the University of Washington School of Medicine. Theres no medical way I can say that he was blacked out. . . . But its not credible for him to say that he has had no memory lapses in the nights that he drank to excess.James Roche, another classmate, recalls Kavanaugh would drink to the point of incoherence.He hung out with the football players and soccer players, and they drank a lot and were bros, Roche, who roomed with Kavanaugh briefly, said.After Kavanaugh’s Fox News interview, Rochedescribed Kavanaugh as a notably heavy drinker who became aggressive and belligerent when he was very drunk.The following is a statement from James Roche, Brett #Kavanaughs freshman roommate at Yale. pic.twitter.com/VfHUgPj3cV— Peter Kauffmann (@PeterKauffmann) September 25, 2018But some of Kavanaugh’s friends from high school and college have come to his defense.	Liberal
On Tuesday, while most of the world rewatched President Donald Trump’s performance at the United Nations, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders visited the couch at Fox News’ Fox & Friends with a message for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell about the proper process for Supreme Court nominees.Sanders stated:“The president wants this process to come to a vote because thats whats supposed to happen. In every single one of these instances where someone is nominated, they go before, they have a hearing, and then the senators vote on it.”Only Sanders’ message arrived over two years too late.When Justice Antonin Scalia died in February 2016, President Barack Obama considered his options for replacements. Then on March 16, 2016, Obama nominated moderate Judge Merrick Garland to fill the vacancy.But Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentuckytogether with Republican Chairman Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowablocked any Senate Judiciary Committee hearings from taking place and the full Senate from voting on the confirmation of Garland for the vacant SCOTUS position. McConnell cited it being an election year as the reason.However his argument ignored past history. In November 1987, President Ronald Reagan nominated Anthony Kennedy to the Supreme Court. The Democratic controlled Senate held hearings and approved Reagan’s choice in February 1988, during an election year.Statistics show one-third of all Presidents nominated a SCOTUS Justice during election years. Six Presidents defeated in their reelection bids and awaiting the end of their terms even nominated justices who were approved. Never before did such a blockage of an appointment occur.Of course, Sanders did not appear of Fox News to admonish McConnell and Grassley for their false claims and delaying tactics that cost Obama his last SCOTUS pick and left the Supreme Court short a justice for 421 days. Sanders went to admonish Democrats for not immediately confirming President Trump’s latest SCOTUS pick, Brett Kavanaugh.The apparent hypocrisy proved too much for people who blasted Sanders on social media.	Liberal
The symbiotic relationship between President Donald Trump and Fox News is well known, so it came as little surprise that Fox would make some convenient edits to the video of Trump’s embarrassing moment in front of the UN General Assembly earlier today.In case you missed it, Trump stated with a straight face:“In less than two years, my administration has accomplished more than almost any administration in the history of our country.”While that claim would draw thunderous applause from the President’s usual audience at one of his rallies, at the United Nations it drew laughter.Trump followed the claim with his usual agreement with himself and stated:“So true.”And the gathered assembly laughed again, to which Trump responded:“Didnt expect that reaction, but thats OK.”You can watch NBC News’s video of the moment below:WATCH: Laughter in UN General Assembly as President Trump touts his administration's progress in past 2 years: "Didn't expect that reaction, but that's OK." pic.twitter.com/V7GViB5g4B— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 25, 2018But for Fox, when it came time to tweet the video of the global embarrassment, the network decided to share two clips, one covering just before the laughtercutting abruptly as the President finishes the word “country”and picked up again just after the laughter ended.Here is the first video..@POTUS: In less than two years, my administration has accomplished more than almost any administration in the history of our country. #UNGA pic.twitter.com/7423ogQbNT Fox News (@FoxNews) September 25, 2018The second video picks up just after Trump reacted to his audience’s laughter over his claim. Here it is..@POTUS: Americas economy is booming like never before. #UNGA pic.twitter.com/BbfDKAJ5PG Fox News (@FoxNews) September 25, 2018The laughter and the President’s reaction conveniently did not appear in Fox News coverage. However people happily filled in the blanks for the network.All but the highlighted part got tweeted out pic.twitter.com/liVYwOhxyN Aaron Blake (@AaronBlake) September 25, 2018While the dubious claims and the laughter of world leaders in response led the news on other networks, Fox News tried to pretend it never happened. And pundits called it propaganda.On Twitter, people let Fox News know what they thought of their altered video and minced few words.Many shared the unedited versions so Fox News Twitter followers could compare them side by side.You… You edited out the laughter. How dare you even continue to pretend your propaganda ministry is a news station. pic.twitter.com/ckn4HlvxEh Alt. U.S. Press Sec. (@AltUSPressSec) September 25, 2018Gee you cut out the best part. The UN reacting with laughter after he made this statement : ) https://t.co/2MT4CxcogO Sasha (@AVechera) September 25, 2018MISSED: Just got laughed at, by the entire World. Yes, you’re a laughing stock to the entire World. No doubt about it!https://t.co/wV5n9xUcPj Diversity Counts (@DiversityCounts) September 25, 2018While others added the news of what happened immediately after Fox News’ version cut off.	Liberal
When one tweets as often as the president of the United States, it’s fair odds that there will be some contradictions. But when it comes to Donald Trump, there really is a tweet for everything. When Donald Trump makes a statement–be it about anything fromBob Woodwardtothe electoral college toanonymous sources–chances are, one of his past tweets says the opposite.Today is no different.As Trump began his remarks at the United Nations General Summit, he boasted–as he often does–that his presidency has been more successful in its first two years than any president’s in history.And the crowd went wild…with laughter.World leaders laughed at @realDonaldTrump during his boastful speech at the UN pic.twitter.com/jlNsxUR4OR— Richard HP (@richardhp) September 25, 2018To add insult to injury, one of the most vocal critics of Donald Trump’s performance today would likely be Donald Trump in 2014.We need a President who isn't a laughing stock to the entire World. We need a truly great leader, a genius at strategy and winning. Respect!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 9, 2014This made Twitter users laugh even harder.So much for that.— Frank Figliuzzi (@FrankFigliuzzi1) September 25, 2018https://twitter.com/L0ckThemALLup/status/1044617160931209216https://twitter.com/tiedtoanight/status/1044676601412308992UN says otherwise pic.twitter.com/3Q2ruA5f9S— Natalie Ball (@MzSailiante) September 25, 2018And the president was undoubtedly irked when Americans compared him to his arch-rival former President Barack Obama, to whom the tweet originally referred.https://twitter.com/ProudResister/status/1044639065344139270@realDonaldTrump You almost got it right. You're the laughing stock of the world & President @BarackObama is highly respected.— Irma Gherd (@maureenchuck1) August 9, 2014wouldnt it be great if we had that? We did have it with Obama oh well— Martina Navratilova (@Martina) September 25, 2018But for some, concern outweighed comedy by far.	Liberal
Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) was photographed on a flight from Washington, D.C. back to Texas looking at a web page with a photo of Beto O’Rourke, the Democrat Representative who is running to unseat him in the upcoming midterm elections.Cruz was snapped by a photographer withPolitico Playbook.Per Politico: Ted Cruz was spotted on his phone on a flight back from DC looking at a photo of Beto O'Rourke. via @playbookplus pic.twitter.com/Gx4NeBWUaB— andrew kaczynski (@KFILE) September 25, 2018Spotted: Ted Cruz admiring @BetoORourke pic.twitter.com/19y1Cr4A1G— jordan (@JordanUhl) September 24, 2018Cruz, once considered a shoo-in for re-election, has found a formidable challenger in O’Rourke, with whom he’s now locked in a neck-and-neck race for the Senate seat, according to recent polling figures.The photographs quickly made the rounds on social media, and Cruz was routinely mocked.Diary entry, 9/24/18:  I wonder if he thinks about me?  I try to let him know Im thinking about him with ads that are about his looks, his style, his charm.  His ads are all about issues *ugh* like health care, taxes, and justice.  I just want him to notice me, is that so wrong?— Paul Butler (@marathonhog) September 25, 2018Cruz is studying the face of an actual caring person and wondering how he can become one.— Ellen melchiondo (@EllenmelchEllen) September 25, 2018Gazing longingly, Cruz whispered, I want you.So do we, Ted. So do we.— Kate (@Apphouse50) September 25, 2018C'mon Ted, swipe right.— Totally not Seb Gorka (@AlphaMaleDrG) September 24, 2018Beto to Cruz: pic.twitter.com/UkWnW6SrFX— Emily Williams (@mle0908) September 24, 2018@BetoORourke is living in Ted Cruz's head rent free.— szcherif (@alcheriff) September 24, 2018The reaction to the photographs is only the latest bump in an already hard week for Cruz, who last night wasdriven out of a Washington restaurant by activists who chanted, We believe survivors! in response to the sexual assault allegations which have imperiled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation. Cruz was also criticized for not responding to a sexual assault survivor who asked him how he would on Kavanaugh.“God bless you, ma’am,” was all Cruz said before he and his wife left the establishment.Last night, activists confronted Ted Cruz at Fiola, a D.C. restaurant, chanting We believe survivors!A sexual assault survivor asked Cruz how he would vote on Kavanaugh. He ignored her. (via @SmashRacismDC) #TuesdayThoughts #MorningJoe pic.twitter.com/XdV3iyjP86— Holly Fero O'Relly (@AynRandPaulRyan) September 25, 2018Earlier this morning, O’Rourkeresponded to the incident in a tweet of his own urging Cruz’s critics to take the high road.Not right that Senator Cruz and his wife Heidi were surrounded and forced to leave a restaurant last night because of protesters. The Cruz family should be treated with respect.— Beto O'Rourke (@BetoORourke) September 25, 2018O’Rourke’s defense came just a few days after the two sparred during a debate at Southern Methodist University in Dallas.	Liberal
MSNBC host Joe Scarborough believes Brett Kavanaugh’s stance on racial discrimination should disqualify him from serving on the Supreme Court.This is regardless of the sexual assault allegations that are piling up against Kavanaugh, he toldThe View Tuesday morning alongside his co-host and partner Mika Brzesinski.Youve got Democratic senators that are basically saying, I dont need to hear Kavanaugh, hes a rapist! Scarborough exlaimed. Youve got Republican senators going out there and going, I dont need to hear these women, theyre lying!“We still have due process in America, he said, adding that the FBI should investigate the claims and come back with the facts.Scarborough, a former GOP Congressman, saidat the end of the day he thinks Kavanaugh will be confirmed, though he admitted if he were a Senator he would vote ‘No.’I will tell you what bothers me the most about Kavanaugh and I’m a conservative, I have supported just about every conservative judge that has gone up to the Supreme Court, Scarborough said.But when Kavanaugh wasasked by Kamala Harris, do you believe someone can be barred from the United States of America by Congress or the president based solely on their race, he wouldn’t answer the question.He continued:“If you can’t even say that we can discriminate against people based on their race in 2018, you don’t belong on the Supreme Court.”Scarborough explained to host Whoopi Goldberg that GOP Senators planning on voting to confirm Kavanaugh despite his views on racial discrimination are espousing the worst of their party.“That says the same thing about the Republicans who continue to support Donald Trump after he supported a Muslim ban in December 2015, after he pretended in February 2016 he didn’t know who David Duke and the KKK were, after he talked about how an Indiana judge couldn’t be fair because his parents were from Mexico, after he mocked and ridiculed a Gold Star mother.Scarborough abandoned the Republican Party last year in protest of President Donald Trump and admitted he would “vote for whoever will get Donald Trump out of office” in 2020, even if that means voting for a Democrat.Twitter agreed, and users think both issues are reason enough to push Senators to vote ‘No’ on Kavanaugh.So many reasons, we don't have to choose just one!— Anthony DeVito (@AnthonyDeVito) September 25, 2018 pic.twitter.com/deURxKwEiU— whatdamatterwitcha (@norahcjean) September 25, 2018Why cant it be both?— Amy McK (@chra05) September 25, 2018Joe I choose all !! No to BRETT KAVANAUGH!— Barbara #glovesoff (@Smith3Barbarah) September 25, 2018I also agree that the issues matter here. They matter a lot!— US Grant Fan (@browntailedhawk) September 25, 2018I suppose to put rape under "racist discrimination" too. It's minimum discrimination and on top of everything terrorism against women!— Niagara (@NiagaraNovalis) September 25, 2018“Kavanaugh refused to answer whether the US Constitution allows Congress or the president to ban people from the United States based solely on their race,” Scarborough tweeted on Monday. “That shocking response is disqualifying regardless of this weeks hearings.”Kavanaugh refused to answer whether the US Constitution allows Congress or the president to ban people from the United States based solely on their race. That shocking response is disqualifying regardless of this weeks hearings. https://t.co/ahuZP9uODI— Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) September 24, 2018Social media also appreciated Scarborough’s tweet about Kavanaugh.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Tuesday addressed the United Nations General Assembly in New York and was met with laughter after he boasted that his presidency was one of the greatest ever.“America is governed by Americans,” the president told the Assembly (as if this were ever in question) as he began his speech.“In less than two years, my administration has accomplished more than almost any administration in the history of our country,” Trump said. “So true,” he added, which was promptly followed by laughter in the chamber.“Didn’t expect that reaction, but that’s ok,” Trump then joked.WATCH: Laughter in UN General Assembly as President Trump touts his administration's progress in past 2 years: "Didn't expect that reaction, but that's OK." pic.twitter.com/V7GViB5g4B— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 25, 2018This is what it looks like when the world is literally laughing at you.United States is literally the laughing stock of the entire world.— Andre Viens (@andreviens) September 25, 2018Theyre laughing at him, not America.— Deborah Farris (@GambinoJj) September 25, 2018America elected him. We're laughing at America. Own it.— Simon Says  (@Siiiimonsays) September 25, 2018We are now officially the laughing stock of the world.— Hieronymus McGillicuddy (@HieronymusMcG) September 25, 2018@realDonaldTrump Hey Donnie. I know social ques can be particularly tough for sociopaths so I thought I would clear this up for you. This is an example of people laughing AT you not With you.Hope it helps.P.s.Resign.— Eli (@akka838) September 25, 2018Trump continued:“Americas economy is booming like never before. Since my election we have added $10 trillion in wealth. The stock market is at an all-time high  $10 trillion in wealth, and the stock market is at an all-time high. African-American, Hispanic-American, and Asian-American unemployment have achieved the lowest levels ever recorded.”“We have added 4 million new jobs including half a million manufacturing jobs. We have passed the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. We have started the construction of a major border wall and we have greatly strengthened border security. We have secured record funding for our military, $700 billion this year and $716 billion next year. Our military will soon be more powerful than it has ever been before.”Americans are embarrassed.This is embarrassing . No respect from the rest of the world— Sassy Sarr (@YSLfrenchie) September 25, 2018HE is embarrassing.  #ImpeachTrump— Patti Brown (@PattiBrown5) September 25, 2018Trump bragging & whining-no humility or sensitivity to our long-term allies-an embarrassment to the rest of the free world.  We have President who is truly a threat to national security.  Who the hell wrote his speech? Any good points he has are minimized by his arrogance.— Angelo (Andy)Onorato (@aonorat) September 25, 2018Trump just said we believe in the rule of law.  Laughable considering his continuing obstruction of justice.  So sad.— Angelo (Andy)Onorato (@aonorat) September 25, 2018For the love of all that is holy, someone just please turn his mic off – I'm running out of IQ points.— Cullen (@cullen_wright) September 25, 2018Does this all seem familiar? It should.Remember when he said they are laughing at us under Obama?— KAnon  (@KevinExpression) September 25, 2018During Barack Obama’s presidency, Trump tweeted – six times – that the United States had become the laughing stock of the world.	Liberal
As President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh fends off multiple accusations of sexual assault, human rights group Amnesty International is asking Senate Judiciary Head Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) to postpone Kavanaugh’s confirmation vote–an extremely rare move for the organization.Executive Director Margaret Huang said in the letter:Amnesty International USA calls on you to halt the vote on President Trumps nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of the United States.Amnesty International takes no position on the appointment of particular individuals to government positions, unless they are reasonably suspected of crimes under international law and could use their appointment to the position in question to either prevent accountability for these crimes or to continue perpetration. At the same time, the organization calls on governments to thoroughly vet candidates in regard to any human rights concerns arising from their prior conduct.As noted in the letter, Amnesty International rarely voices opinions on Supreme Court nominees unless they believethe candidate poses a serious risk for human rights.In addition to concerns regarding the allegations of sexual assault levied against Kavaugh, Amnesty International also expressed worry regarding Kavanaugh’s position on torture, citing his involvement with the administration of George W. Bush. Amnesty International suggested that Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee found two documents suggesting that Kavanaugh may have had involvement in the CIA torture scandal after 9/11.Some were in agreement with Amnesty International’s request.Love you @amnesty …everyone seems to forget he lied under Oath during a Government hearing w/o consequences, its a felony. His credibility is shot to hell. If he can lie under Oath he can lie about sexual assaults. Virgins can assault pple too.— Pdraign (@sportygirlplays) September 25, 2018Wow  @amnesty is asking us to press pause on #Kavanaugh until all information relevant to his potential involvement in international crimes and human rights violations is declassified. They should have issued this call sooner. https://t.co/aYltrXNggZ— Heidi Matthews (@Heidi__Matthews) September 24, 2018Holy shit.Amnesty International is weighing in on this. I have NEVER seen this. Then again, in my almost 50 years, I have never seen desperate commercials and televised interviews trying to get my buy-in for a #SCOTUS nominee. Something is REALLY wrong with #Kavanaugh. https://t.co/reNjUTEJ2V— Trussia (@yogaskidogs) September 25, 2018Others thought it reflected poorly on the organization.,My late father contributed to Amnesty International, & would be ashamed of #AmnestyInternational's conduct today.I regret having encouraged him to contribute to AI.because LIFE is a human right.Abortion is a human travesty, not a right.And bc USA deserves Judge Kavanaugh.— Tracy Hernandez (@Organics4Free) September 25, 2018https://twitter.com/AcostaJA/status/1044300908618829825Seriously Amnesty International what have you done to the series of right abuse in Nigeria under this leadership called Muhammadu Buhari? I dont understand your role in this Brett Kavanaugh #SCOTUS— Omo Alhaji #Covfefe (@augugelo) September 25, 2018However, Amnesty International’s requests that all documents be turned over and Kavanaugh be re-vetted echo those of many who want to see the allegations of sexual assault investigated.	Liberal
Back in 2017, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)under guidance from Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinkedecided to lift the 26 year ban on hunting grizzly bears in the continental USA. Despite placement on the Endangered Species Act listing in 1975, hunting remained active in Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming, Idaho and Montana.At the time they became officially endangered in the lower 48 states, 136 to 312 bears remained in the Yellowstone area.The news of the hunting ban lift met opposition fromNative American tribes and wildlife advocacy groups. Six lawsuits resulted, which the groups consolidated into a single lawsuit.Pending the results of the court filings, U.S. District JudgeDana Christensen placed on injunction on hunting 2 days before hunting began in Wyoming and Idaho last month.Idaho issued one hunting permit, while Wyoming elected to issue 22 in their portions of the park. Montana opted not to issue any. The majority of the park falls within the Northwestern corner of Wyoming.The ruling came down Monday in a Montana federal court and the hunt is back off again.Judge Christensen ruled to reinstate the hunting ban based on the USFWS reasoning for lifting it.Great news! Thanks to the judge who restored protections for grizzly bears. The financial benefits from those who come to Yellowstone and other parks to see magnificent wildlife is substantial. So glad these iconic bears are being protected! Linda M. Mathews (@dogmom88) September 25, 2018In a 48 page decision,Christensen stated the case was not “about the ethics of hunting, and it is not about solving humanor livestockgrizzly conflicts as a practical or philosophical matter.”USFWS “failed to make a reasoned decision” when delisting a population of roughly 700 Yellowstone grizzlies from the Endangered Species Act.In a now familiar criticism of the Trump administration, the USFWS under Zinke failed to follow all the proper steps in determining the status of grizzlies in the continental US. Hunting impact must evaluate the affects on other species, not just the one being hunted.USFWS skipped that step. Christensen wrotein words recently seen in a ruling against Betsy Devos‘ Department of Educationthat the agencies analysis of threats to grizzlies was “arbitrary and capricious.”News of the canceled hunt inspired celebration from some quarters and disappointment from others. Some alluded the hunting ban repeal motivation stemmed from wealthy trophy hunters rather than any environmental or wildlife management concerns.???????????? Good lord, isn’t it time yet, that we end “trophy hunting”, the slaughter of beautiful animals by maniacal sociopaths, psychopaths!?it’s not a “sport”, a noble endeavor, it’s completely unnecessary, warped, twisted, cruel, bizarre, Serial killers start with animals. Azuresky (@azuresky812) September 25, 2018Too bad for all those yearling fawns like deer, elk, and moose. Lets leave the wildlife management to judges and not biologists, right? Unintended consequnces are like those inconvenient truths yall love so much… Chris Hill (@Chill1916Hill) September 25, 2018As a hunter… I support this Ryan Aschaker (@asch41) September 25, 2018Zinke and his department faced the same criticismsthat wealthy donors and corporate interests took precedenceover his and President Donald Trump’s decision to scale back National Monuments Bears Ears andGrand Staircase-Escalante. Lawsuits regarding that decision remain pending in Washington DC.The Trump administration sought to move those lawsuits to Utah in hopes of getting a more favorable judge. However their request met with denial on Monday.On Twitter, reactions ran toward approval of the reinstated hunting ban.	Liberal
Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee have hired an outside prosecutor to question Dr. Christine Blasey Ford about her sexual assault allegations against Brett Kavanaugh. Ford is scheduled to testify before the committee on Thursday.In a letter to Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), chairman of the committee overseeing Supreme Court nominations, Ford’s attorney Michael Bromwich argued that the presence of an “experienced sex crimes prosecutor” is not necessary because the Senate hearing isn’t a criminal trial.New letter from Fords team to Grassley as obtained by WaPo (h/t to @ToddRuger for reporting 1st). Among other things, slam McConnells speech as inconsistent w/ Grassley approach, push back on hiring of experienced sex crimes prosecutor (whose identity they dont know) pic.twitter.com/TbS2q655oY— Seung Min Kim (@seungminkim) September 25, 2018“This is not a criminal trial for which the involvement of an experienced sex crimes prosecutor would be appropriate,” the letter said. “Neither Dr. Blasey Ford nor Judge Kavanaugh is on trial. The goal should be to develop the relevant facts, not try a case.”And Ford's attorney seeks more information about why a Republican members of the committee will have a lawyer ask questions on their behalf, and who the lawyer is, asap. pic.twitter.com/FvA4BAjerX— Todd Ruger (@ToddRuger) September 24, 2018Ford has made“repeated requests through counsel that senators conduct the questioning,” which Bromwich claimed are being dismissed with the appointment of a third party lawyer whose identity has not been disclosed.“The central point is that there is no precedent for this Committee to bring in outside counsel for the sole purpose of shielding the members of the Committee from performing their responsibility to question witnesses,” Bromwich said.Bromwich requested a copy of the prosecutor’s resume and a meeting with the individual ahead of Ford’s appearance before the committee.People were impressed with the smackdown.https://twitter.com/RoseFromPhila/status/1044402388675760129Wow!!! so impressive!— Laura Hennessey (@LauraHennesse11) September 25, 2018Courage matters.— Dakota Blue (@DakotaBlueGirl) September 25, 2018And disgusted with how Republicans are handling the matter.She is absolutely correct. Republicans are plowing through with impunity in this kangaroo court . Wtf @ChuckGrassley— Jonathan Angelo (@JAngello85) September 25, 2018Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) on Monday brushed off Ford’s accusations as nothing more than a “smear campaign.”	Liberal
Monday night, President Donald Trump’s embattled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sat down with his wife Ashley and Fox News host Martha MacCallum to try to appeal to the public in an exclusive interview. A major factor in the decision for the Kavanaughs to appear on Fox News together is likely the results of a new Fox News poll.Support for Kavanaugh’s confirmation to the SCOTUS bench dropped since August.Last month, voters polled by Fox News split evenly with 45 percent supporting Kavanaugh and 46 percent opposed. But now support for Kavanaugh dropped to 40 percent and opposition to his being made a SCOTUS justice for life is at 50 percent of voters.Democrats and Republicans oppose and support Kavanaugh largely along party lines and in equal numbers to balance each other out, but independent voters tipped the scales against his confirmation.Opposition to a SCOTUS nominee by 50 percent of voters is the highest ever since Fox News began polling on the question in 2005.BREAKING: Record number of voters now oppose #Kavanaugh nomination:The number favoring Kavanaughs confirmation dropped 12 points among independents & 11 points among suburban women@FoxNews #Poll DETAILS: https://t.co/vG0zbma11e pic.twitter.com/gzOYdGaTBm Fox News Poll (@foxnewspoll) September 23, 2018But Kavanaugh’s prior 46 percent opposition already broke the record in August.The former record holder was another Trump appointee. Neil Gorsuch saw the previous high opposition percentage of 39 percent back in March 2017.The reason for the defection by Kavanaugh’s supporters? Credibility.Fox News poll: More voters believe Fords claims than Kavanaughs denials by a 6-point margin, 36 vs. 30 percent. However, about one-third, 34 percent, are unsure who is telling the truth. https://t.co/vPdQR07UWs Kirsten Powers (@KirstenPowers) September 23, 2018While a higher percentage than normal felt undecided, more voters believe Dr. Christine Blasey Ford than Kavanaugh. 34 percent of voters remain uncertain who to believe, 36 percent believe Ford, while only 30 percent believe Kavanaugh.Both men and women believe Ford over Kavanaugh, but women believe her at a higher margin. Men believe Ford by only 1 percentage point while women believe her by 10 percentage points.With half of all voters opposed to Kavanaugh’s confirmation, Republicans seeking reelection in Novembers midterms may look to distance themselves from the unpopular nominee. Fox News asked voters how important an incumbent candidate’s stance on Kavanaugh was to their voting decision.Democrats and Republicans placed on almost equal percentages of voters who stated the candidate’s stance on Kavanaugh was extremely important. However approval and disapproval of Kavanaugh’s confirmation also split equally among the GOP and Dems.Once again, independent voters are likely to be key to winning in November.As for postponing the confirmation process, more people support a postponement than not postponing. 56 percent of voters support postponing a vote for Kavanaugh’s confirmation.Men support postponing by 53 percent while only 33 percent think the process should proceed on the prest schedule. Among women, 58 percent want a postponement with only 29 percent saying no to a delay.Fox News Poll pic.twitter.com/9MaGHBGEac D Klems (@kklemd) September 25, 2018Of particular interest were results related to the voters knowledge of the events. Voters following the news of Kavanaugh’s nomination and confirmation process as well as Dr. Ford’s allegations were more likely to believe Ford over Kavanaugh.36 percent of all voters believed Ford, but the percentage increased to 44 percent among informed voters. Calls for postponement also increased from 56 percent to 62 percent.Clearly, Kavanaugh needs to work on his image which is where Monday night’s Fox News exclusive interview came in.	Liberal
Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s years as a student at Georgetown Preparatory School have come under intense scrutiny since Dr. Christine Blasey Ford identified herself as the author of a then-anonymous letter alleging that he had assaulted her while at a high school party. Kavanaugh’s high school yearbook shows that he played football, drank a lot, attended a lot of parties, and boasted of his conquests with girls.Now, a woman who signed a letter of support after he was accused of sexual assault earlier this month has learned that Kavanaugh and his friends sexually demeaned her. She called an entry”Renate Alumnius”from his yearbookthat showed Kavanaugh and his friends (including Mark Judge, whom Dr. Ford alleges was present at the time of her assault) reportedly boasted about their supposed conquests with her “hurtful.”The entry is a reference to Renate Schroeder, then a student at a nearby Catholic girls school.The word Renate appears at least 14 times in Georgetown Prep’s 1983 yearbook, particularlyin a group photo of nine football players, including Kavanaugh, who were described as the Renate Alumni.I learned about these yearbook pages only a few days ago, said the woman now known as Renate Schroeder Dolphin, who was one of 65 women who signed a letter vouching for Kavanaugh’s character after Dr. Ford’s allegations became public.I dont know what Renate Alumnus actually means,” she continued. “I cant begin to comprehend what goes through the minds of 17-year-old boys who write such things, but the insinuation is horrible, hurtful and simply untrue. I pray their daughters are never treated this way. I will have no further comment."I cant begin to comprehend what goes through the minds of 17-year-old boys who write such things, but the insinuation is horrible, hurtful and simply untrue," Renate Schroeder Dolphin said in a statement to The New York Times: https://t.co/jWzuGQXq2U pic.twitter.com/yCg0jRdZdC— The New York Times (@nytimes) September 25, 2018Sean Hagan, a Georgetown Prep student at the time, confirmed that the mentions of Renate were part ofthe football players unsubstantiated boasting of their sexual conquests and that they’d sought to memorialize their supposed conquests in their yearbooks with the “Renate” references.They were very disrespectful, at least verbally, with Renate, said Hagan, referring to Kavanaugh and his fellow football players.I cant express how disgusted I am with them, then and now.Four of the football players in the Renate Alumni photo claimed in a statement that theynever bragged about sexual conquests with Renate Schroder Dolphin. Among them: DeLancey Davis (wholisted himself as chairman of the Bored of the Renate Club”) and Tom Kane (whose yearbook page includes a reference to “Renate’s Suicide Squad.”)The Renate references were intended to allude to innocent dates or dance partners and were generally known within the community of people involved for over 35 years,” said Jim McCarthy, a public relations representative hired by the four men, adding:“These commentswere never controversial and did not impact ongoing relationships until The Times twisted and forced an untrue narrative. This shabby journalism is causing egregious harm to all involved, particularly our friend, and is simply beneath contempt.Another Georgetown alumnus, Michael Walsh,also listed himself on his personal yearbook page as a Renate Alumnus. His page includes the following short poem:You need a date / and its getting late / so dont hesitate / to call Renate.Kavanaugh’s lawyer, Alexandra Walsh, responded to the scrutiny surrounding the yearbook with the following statement:“Judge Kavanaugh was friends with Renate Dolphin in high school. He admired her very much then, and he admires her to this day.Judge Kavanaugh and Ms. Dolphin attended one high school event together and shared a brief kiss good night following that event.They had no other such encounter. The language from Judge Kavanaughs high school yearbook refers to the fact that he and Ms. Dolphin attended that one high school event together and nothing else.But Dolphin says she never kissed Kavanaugh.I think Brett must have me confused with someone else, because I never kissed him, she said through her lawyer.The latest reveal from Kavanaugh’s past has been heavily criticized.We have reached the point where Kavanaugh is explaining specific yearbook references. His lawyers: "Judge Kavanaugh and Ms. Dolphin attended one high school event together and shared a brief kiss goodnight following that event. They had no other such encounter" via @Arianedevogue pic.twitter.com/O6nqxiTgcU— MJ Lee (@mj_lee) September 25, 2018Football, kegs, and the "Renate Alumni" club: A window into SCOTUS nominee Brett #Kavanaugh's high school years that shines an unflattering light on his view of young women then. With @davidenrich https://t.co/IZZWIRAOBD— Kate Kelly (@katekelly) September 25, 2018I know this is way beside the point now but weren't there any adults at this school? Did any adult think, "Huh. I wonder what all these references to Renate Alumni are about. Maybe we should check that out before we publish this."— RahRah Peterman (@RahRahPeterman) September 25, 2018It doesnt matter if what binds the Renate Alumni together is that they had sex with her or kissed her or dated her. Its deeply telling they formed a group based on the classification of another human being as an object of which one can gain possession. https://t.co/bAOayegFzu— Allison Tolman (@Allison_Tolman) September 25, 2018If you believe their claims that Renate alumni is totally innocent, Ive got a bridge to sell you. Its such a frat-boy move, in all the worst ways. They owe her an apology, even so many years later. Shame on them.  https://t.co/yGDZnJyS4X— Nancy Sobel (@nancysobel) September 25, 2018Not sure male people can appreciate how enraging it is to hear about something like the "Renate Alumni" and read that she didn't know until now that they were talking about her like that.  She thought they were her friends.— LORDY- i want the lady with the emails in the Oval (@AZTanya) September 25, 2018Georgetown alumnus Sean Hagan said Dolphin“should be offended,” adding that he was “completely astounded” when he saw that she had signed the letter supporting Kavanaugh, presuming that she had known of the derogatory references to her in the Georgetown Prep yearbook.	Liberal
President Donald Trump once again braved flood waters to perform a few heroic rescues in the wake of Hurricane Florence. Or, he did in the imagination of the person who altered a photo of an actual rescuefrom 2015to add the President.Kevin Roose, a reporter for The New York Times, posted the altered picture next to the 2015 original on Twitter. At the time of his posting, Roose stated that the image had been shared over 275,000 times on Facebook.A photoshopped picture depicting Trump rescuing people during Hurricane Florence has been shared 275,000 times on Facebook. The original is from Texas flooding in 2015. pic.twitter.com/woWuPuqSSy Kevin Roose (@kevinroose) September 24, 2018Let’s get a closer look at that:Roose also posited why Facebook did not block the sharing of an obviously altered photo designed to trick people.Facebook already uses image hashing/fingerprinting to prevent repeat uploads of e.g. revenge porn. Seems like it would be easy to prevent obviously fake photos from going viral. Kevin Roose (@kevinroose) September 24, 2018But people questioned if anyone shared it thinking the President actually participated in rescuesin a suit no lessor if it was shared as a joke. After all, it appears Trump is using a red MAGA hat as a lifeline for the man he’s about to “rescue.”do you think the people sharing this believe it to be real? (i keep on going back and forth) Matthew Zeitlin (@MattZeitlin) September 24, 2018Hes not even saving them. Hes handing him a MAGA hat. Comrade Misty is Putins Buddy (@SarcasmStardust) September 24, 2018Two HUGE giveaways.1. Trump is being brave 2. Trump is helping someone John Reiff (@J_R_Reiff) September 24, 2018Are you sure this is being used in a positive light, Im sure the original was a derogatory post as it depicts Trump handing over a MAGA hat #irony Muzzo (@garymunns) September 24, 2018Woah. I thought this was only be shared as a joke, not to be interpreted as legit news! ?????? Man, 2018. You never know what sort of dumbfuckery you’ll encounter. Dan Kan (@dkan1030) September 24, 2018People really thought it was real… Come on DiP ???? ? (@DDiPonzio) September 24, 2018Although one person claimed to mistake the red item in Trump’s hand for something else entirely.Clearly he’s distributing MAGA hats. Tacitus Mueller (@sitacuissem) September 24, 2018One Twitter user stated they had a “Trump supporting Aunt” who did believe the photo was real.My Trump supporting Aunt actually posted the photoshopped one on FB & wrote see the media never gives Trump credit its always negative fake news. In a weird way it validated that Im not the one thats crazy. Dawn Peters (@dawnlpeters) September 24, 2018Right. Donald Trump rescued people from Hurricane Florence the way he cleared wreckage from the World Trade Center in the days after 9/11. And people will believe it. Believe me! Russell Drew (@RussOnPolitics) September 24, 2018But many were just happy to share the many other versions of the photo of the President’s heroics. In some, another viral meme gets added when former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie is added in.This is the real photo. pic.twitter.com/BAjh6bUe8k Kimberly Costello (@KimCostello) September 24, 2018And it is not always a MAGA hat that Trump hands the flood victim.…and I thought this was real!  pic.twitter.com/eFbtB0ZqQP wajobu (@wajobu) September 24, 2018And the President is not always in a raft.pic.twitter.com/YDftEcjdEt J (@dharmabum013) September 24, 2018While the devastation and death toll from Florence are no laughing matter, people did enjoy a laugh over the altered image of Trump handing out MAGA hatswith or without Christieduring a flood.Christy forgot to pack them onto the raft… Dat Yankee (@rotll) September 24, 2018Handing the guy the maga hat is the best. Jim (@porttacksailor) September 24, 2018Bahaha…I love the addition of Christie ?? Kristina (@flo09432) September 24, 2018pic.twitter.com/06s6kqWLA2 Rayne~I missed my stop in 2016! let me out! (@lane_rayne) September 24, 2018This is not the first time Trump made a seemingly heroic venture into the flood waters however.	Liberal
Russia’s interference in the 2016election almost certainly helped propel Donald Trump to the presidency, according to a new book:Cyberwar: How Russian Hackers and Trolls Helped Elect a PresidentWhat We Don’t, Can’t, and Do Know.Russian interference "very likely" won Trump the presidency, a new book claims https://t.co/IO0krgb9pG— The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) September 24, 2018The book, written byUniversity of Pennsylvania Professor Kathleen Hall Jamieson, found that Russia’s primary tactic was convincing swing voters in key battleground states to support Trump or abstain from voting.The author is Kathleen Hall Jamieson and here is the link to the book, an important new addition to the 2016 canon: https://t.co/PZ8KEjCahN— Peter Daou (@peterdaou) September 24, 2018This was largely achieved through manipulation of the media. For example,there was the leaking of confidential DNC emails by Wikileaks on the eve of the second presidential debate.Various snippets were taken out of context, and although most of the messages were objectively harmless, they were nevertheless used to paint Hillary Clinton in a negative light – like she was hiding something, meaning she was untrustworthy.The email dumps stole other headlines away from more newsworthy stories, such as the release of the infamousAccess Hollywoodrecording on which Trump can be heard bragging about sexually assaulting women.The tape was released by The Washington Post the same day as an explosive New York Times report that exposed Russian efforts to influence American voters.On Friday, October 7, 2016, the Department of Homeland Security and the Director of National Intelligence issued a joint statementthat American intelligence “is confident that the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from US persons and institutions, including from US political organizations.”Jamieson also writes that Russian hackers were able to obtain information on voters who, based on their data, could be dissuaded from supporting Clinton.Jamieson was able to glean additional data from polls to form her conclusion:you can affect people, who then change their decision, andthatalters the outcome.Im not arguing that Russians pulled the voting levers, Hall toldThe New Yorker. Im arguing that they persuaded enough people to either vote a certain way or not vote at all.Of the four hundred and seventy Facebook accounts known to have been created by Russian saboteurs during the campaign, a mere six of them generated content that was shared at least three hundred and forty million times:  https://t.co/PN7XaRgnMj pic.twitter.com/BJrRZSbbnu— The New Yorker (@NewYorker) September 24, 2018“If everything else is a constant? No, I do not” believe Trump would be president without the aid of the Russians, Jamieson said."Jamieson argues that the impact of the Russian cyberwar was likely enhanced by its consistency with messaging from Trumps campaign, and by its strategic alignment with the campaigns geographic and demographic objectives."— Justin Hendrix (@justinhendrix) September 24, 2018Twitter has been abuzz with people who are frustrated with ongoing denials of Russian election interference, which has time and again been proven to have taken place.	Liberal
Students at Yale Law School staged a sit-in on Monday in protest of Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court, which has become imperiled by multiple allegations of sexual misconduct against the judge,The Boston Globe reported on Monday.Yale officials cancelled classes to accommodate a protest by law students opposed to the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the US Supreme Court. https://t.co/FTrjSH9rfB pic.twitter.com/GbqfvSiWEH— The Boston Globe (@BostonGlobe) September 24, 2018Scores of people dressed in black flooded the halls of Yale, silently supporting the idea that accusations of sexual assault should be taken seriously and that Kavanaugh represents areal threat to the republic.Yale Law School students fill a hallway sitting in silent protest over allegations that Brett Kavanaugh assaulted at least 2 women. pic.twitter.com/uxUwKoZkCT— Kent Pierce (@kentpierce8) September 24, 2018Some classes were canceled or rescheduled to accommodatethe protesters, who as of Monday afternoon have the backing of the Dean of Yale Law School.The allegations of sexual misconduct against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh are rightly causing deep concern at Yale Law School and across the country, Yale Law School Dean Heather Gerken said in a statement.As dean, I cannot take a position on the nomination, but I am so proud of the work our community is doing to engage with these issues,” Gerkin said, “and I stand with them in supporting the importance of fair process, the rule of law and the integrity of the legal system.Gerkin added that dozens of faculty members urged a “fair and deliberate” confirmation process in a letter sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee.Videos of the Yale protest appeared on Twitter Monday afternoon.Students walking out of Yale Law School building as part of their protest demanding investigation of accusations against Kavanaugh pic.twitter.com/3gBFaRAfjK— Rebecca Lurye (@RebeccaLurye) September 24, 2018Over a hundred Yale Students are gathering in the halls of Congress in protest against corrupt Kavanaughs nomination and in front of the offices of GOPers to tell them to vote no. pic.twitter.com/1Jle8pL9ln— Ricky Davila (@TheRickyDavila) September 24, 2018WATCH: Dozens of students sit in silence, wearing black demanding thorough look into accusations against Yale alumnus and Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. 31 law school classes have been cancelled today in light of protest. #nbcct pic.twitter.com/yCthpadhuj— Shannon Miller (@_ShannonMiller) September 24, 2018Protesters are demanding investigations into the multiple accounts of sexual misconduct of which Kavanaugh stands accused.The protests come a day after a second woman, Deborah Ramirez, told the New Yorker that Kavanaugh drunkenly exposed himself and forced her to touch his genitals at a Yale party in the early 1980’s. Some students traveled to Washington, DC to voice their opposition to Kavanaugh.	Liberal
Ann Coulter made a name for herself in conservative circles during the late 1990s through the mid 2000s with a syndicated weekly newspaper column, her own radio show and frequent appearances on television news channels. But in the last decade, Coulter found herself pushed out of the spotlight by younger, more inflammatory conservative women like Laura Ingraham and Tomi Lahren.With over 2 million Twitter followers from her heyday, most of Coulter’s tweets rarely garner more than a few hundred comments and a few thousand likes. Now, Coulter gains most of her social media notice by criticizing President Donald Trump or by making deliberately controversial statements on Twitter, which can boost her likes into the tens of thousands.On Sunday night, Coulter tweeted simply the word “bullshit” 16 times in all caps, without any context or thread.BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT. Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) September 24, 2018Leaving people to wonder just what the context could have been.What’s the topic Anne ?? Trevor Coult MC ???? (@TrevorCoultMC) September 24, 2018Some wondered if she suffered a malfunction.Somebody turn her off and turn her back on. She appears to be malfunctioning. Dave (@DMC66MN) September 24, 2018nah, just leave her off. Damn thing never worked right. John Wiatrak (@Johnwjgt) September 24, 2018When really the context wasn’t much of a mystery at all considering the news that had broken from The New Yorker about an hour before:Senate Democrats are investigating a new allegation of sexual misconduct against Brett Kavanaugh, dating back to his college years, when he was a freshman at Yale University: https://t.co/MfwuGAW8ij pic.twitter.com/5CJ7hos5kH— The New Yorker (@NewYorker) September 23, 2018Not to mention Coulter’s follow-up tweets, which went on the attack against Kavanaugh’s accusers for choosing now to come forward.But that didn’t stop people from continuing to mock Coulter for her Twitter outburst.Im dying pic.twitter.com/JjHExFmUHW Elizabeth S Gorham (@esgorham) September 24, 2018pic.twitter.com/5eDU6q50VQ Andrew Hsieh ???????? (@AndrewOnSeeAIR) September 24, 2018Ann, it looks like your Alt-Right key is broken. Call Computer Geeks for help! Denis Young (@young2813) September 24, 2018pic.twitter.com/9G8mTHYzle Hannibal Lecter?? (@Humanitarian66) September 24, 2018Somebody needs a hug? pic.twitter.com/jdOHWKIErq Bimmerella #KavaNOPE?? (@bimmerella) September 24, 2018Did your universal translator break down? This is what we see when we read one of your tweets. PencilDickTrump (@PencilDickTrump) September 24, 2018You ran this tweet through google translate. Adam Brodsky (@adambrodsky) September 24, 2018Ah, my translator app appears to be working again. misterwah (@therealmrwah) September 24, 2018pic.twitter.com/5nxTmQHfgB Les HailYes (@LesHailYes) September 24, 2018While others decided to fill in the blank about just exactly what Coulter referenced with her invectives.	Liberal
In a letter addressed to Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), the chairman and the ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh insisted, once again, that allegations that he sexually assaulted women while in high school and college are false. He did not, despite the scandal, offer to formally withdraw his nomination.“I will not be intimidated into withdrawing from this process. The coordinated effort to destroy my good name will not drive me out,” the embattled nominee wrote.Brett Kavanaugh sends new letter to the Judiciary Committee, via @Arianedevogue: I will not be intimidated into withdrawing from this process. The coordinated effort to destroy my good name will notdrive me out. pic.twitter.com/XjvjN08CTr— Phil Mattingly (@Phil_Mattingly) September 24, 2018Only after the “exhaustive process” of providing testimony before the Senate was complete did a 36-year-old allegation from Dr. Christine Blasey Ford surface, Kavanaugh said, adding that it “had been asserted months earlier and withheld from me throughout the hearing process”:“First it was an anonymous allegation that I categorically and unequivocally denied. Soon after the accuser [Dr. Ford] was identified, I repeated my denial on the record and made clear that I wished to appear before the Committee. I then repeated my denial to Committee investigatorsunder criminal penalties for false statements…Last night, another false and uncorroborated accusation from 35 years ago was published… There is now a frenzy to come up with somethinganythingthat will block this process and a vote on my confirmation from occurring.”Continuing, Kavanaugh claimed he is the victim of a smear campaign and possible conspiracy:“These are smears, pure and simple. And they debase our public discourse. But they are also a threat to any man or woman who wishes to serve our country. Such grotesque and obvious character assassinationif allowed to succeedwill dissuadecompetent and good people from all political persuasions from service.”Kavanaugh’s claims mirror White House talking points issued earlier today. President Donald Trump has not shied away from dismissing allegations of sexual misconduct against Kavanaughas “totally political.”“And for people to come out of the woodwork from 36 years ago and 30 years ago and never mentioned it and all of a sudden it happens, in my opinion it’s totally political,” he said. “It’s totally political.”VIDEO: President Trump pledges support for Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, saying the sexual misconduct allegations against his choice are "totally political." https://t.co/qgKmeWy0K1— The Associated Press (@AP) September 24, 2018White House counselor Kellyanne Conway doubled down on the president’s claim, suggesting that Kavanaugh is indeed the target of a conspiracy from left-wing politicians and their supporters.“He’s now calling this a smear campaign,” she said on “CBS This Morning.” “Indeed, it’s starting to feel like a vast left-wing conspiracy.”.@KellyannePolls on #Kavanaugh allegations: "I just dont think one mans shoulders should bear decades of the #MeToo movement." pic.twitter.com/j0UHeye9mf— Norah O'Donnell (@NorahODonnell) September 24, 2018AndWhite House spokesperson Kerri Kupec said in a statement that the White House would continue to stand by Kavanaugh:“This 35-year-old, uncorroborated claim is the latest in a coordinated smear campaign by the Democrats designed to tear down a good man. This claim is denied by all who were said to be present and is wholly inconsistent with what many women and men who knew Judge Kavanaugh at the time in college say. The White House stands firmly behind Judge Kavanaugh.”Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell echoed these sentiments, calling the outrage directed toward Kavanaugh a “shameful, shameful smear campaign” perpetrated by Senate Democrats.	Liberal
American Conservative Union chairman Matt Schlapp is getting pounded on Twitter for suggesting that Republicans’ Supreme Court nominees get treated unfairly by Democrats.Schlapp tweeted on Sunday that Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation hearings have “transformed into a disgrace” and that “when Dems win their SC noms get an easy time, but ours get mauled.”This Kavanaugh confirmation has transformed into a disgrace. How is it when Dems win their SC noms get an easy time, but ours get mauled.— Matt Schlapp (@mschlapp) September 24, 2018Kavanaugh is facing allegations of sexual misconduct from four women who claim to have been attacked by a heavily intoxicated Kavanaugh during his days at Georgetown Preparatory School and Yale University.But to those on the political left, Schlapp’s remarks are rank with hypocrisy. Senate Republicans refused to hold hearings for Merrick Garland, whom President Barack Obama tapped to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia in 2016.Scalia’s seat was eventually filled by Neil Gorsuch, who was confirmed with Democratic votes after being nominated by President Donald Trump. The seat sat empty for more than a year.Thus, the blowback against Schlapp was harsh.Merrick Garland, you gelatinous, side-winding sack of sanctimonious shitballs.Merrick. Garland.— BrooklynDad_Defiant! (@mmpadellan) September 24, 2018Two words might both jog your memory and negate your comment:#MerrickGarland— KrisS  Your Vote, Your Voice  (@MplsMe) September 24, 2018Easy time? You mean like NO HEARING AT ALL! GARLAND— Leonard hougham (@LeonardHougham) September 24, 2018Really??? Merrick Garland ring a bell?How about Neil Gorsuch??Perhaps nominate candidates who werent sexually assaulting females in high school and college?— Just Elizabeth (@Eiggam5955) September 24, 2018Garland couldnt get a hearing. Gorsuch was confirmed with Democratic votes. Are you Memento? https://t.co/lLWSsV0eDw— Jon Lovett (@jonlovett) September 24, 2018Merrick Garland got a real easy time, I hear.— SophieCT (@SophieInCT) September 24, 2018Have you ever heard of Merrick Garland?— DebN (@mudderbae) September 24, 2018They have selective memories…or in other words they are called liars, hypocrites, self-centered, deniers.Basically #CorruptGOP !— #WeShouldDoBetter (@dreambiglivewel) September 24, 2018Not only did they screw Garland, they put publically stated that they would hold Scalia's seat open for at least 4 years. I heard Michael Steele claim that 8 justices would be fine.— Dave Rohbock (@mdcrawfish) September 24, 2018McConnell changed Senate procedure with the nuclear option, eliminating the filibuster on Supreme Court nominees and changing the number of votes required for confirmation to 51, down from 60.That left Scalias seat unfilled until Trumps nominee Judge Neil Gorsuch wasconfirmedto the Supreme Court on April 1, 2017, by a 54-45 vote.One activist has the receipts of Supreme Court justices appointed by Republicans that were nearly unanimously confirmed.Burger, 94-3Powell, 89-1Blackmun, 94-0Stevens, 98-0O'Connor, 99-0Scalia, 98-0. Kennedy, 97-0Souter, 91-7Roberts, 78-22.Do you have another false equivalency argument that you'd like debunked?— Mike Prevost  (@MikePrevost3) September 24, 2018Schlapp took the bait. Notably, Clarence Thomas was accused of sexual harassment in 1991 by attorney Anita Hill, and still, he was ultimately confirmed.Mike keep going:Bork stoppedGinsberg stopped Thomas high tech lynching Alito close voteGorsuch close voteKavanaugh circus https://t.co/5IojaDBMkP— Matt Schlapp (@mschlapp) September 24, 2018Spoiler alert: Schlapp didn’t get the response he intended.Ginsberg withdrew, Thomas and Gorsuch confirmed.  I dont remember what the vote was on Merrick Garland.— Jack Fuller (@JackFuller52) September 24, 2018Gorsuch 54-45. Alito 58-42. Thomas 52-48.— Tim Towner (@towner_tim) September 24, 2018Also maybe nominate someone less rapey?— Lord Dampnut (@LordDampnuts) September 24, 2018Wheres Garland on that list??? Oh, right. He never got a hearing because… why, again? Oh yeah, right. Sit down, Matt.— The Left is Right (@jpc1214) September 24, 2018https://twitter.com/azstudigital/status/1044233500516179968https://twitter.com/NoleCalibur/status/1044238779500957696“High tech lynching?” Really?You made sure you said high tech lynching instead of vote… sad— Random Rod AKA Boogie Slim (@Groovciti) September 24, 2018To add to the reasons Schlapp’s tweet is ridiculous, prior to the 2016 election, Republicansthreatened to deny Hillary Clinton a Supreme Court pick if she were elected president.	Liberal
In an appearance on CBS The Morning Monday, Kellyanne Conway, White House Counselor to the President, stated the mounting sexual assault allegations against President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, are“starting to feel like a vast left-wing conspiracy.”People could not help but be reminded of another time they heard those words. Back in 1998, First Lady Hillary Clinton said on the Today shownear the end of the over 4 year long Independent Counsel Ken Starr investigationRepublicans were engaged in a vast right-wing conspiracy against her husband, President Bill Clinton.After stating spent Starr four years examining every document, phone call made and check written by them looking for anything to implicate her husband, the then FLOTUS stated:“The great story here for anyone willing to find it and write about it and explain it, is this vast right-wing conspiracy that has been conspiring against my husband since the day he announced for President.”You can watch Clinton’s remarks here.Here’s Conway’s statement on CBS This Morning.“This is starting to feel like a vast left-wing conspiracy,” says @Kellyannepolls on new accusations against Brett Kavanaugh pic.twitter.com/b8Rq04RSyv CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) September 24, 2018Brett Kavanaugh was a member of Ken Starr’s team. Several damaging memos and emails from Kavanaugh’s time on Starr’s team came to light during his Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing. The irony of Conway invoking Secretary Clinton’s words to defend Kavanaugh caught people’s notice.Kellyanne Conway borrowed an old line from Hillary Clinton, telling CBS the accusations against Kavanaugh are starting to look like a vast left wing conspiracy. Derick Waller (@wallerABC7) September 24, 2018According to her 2003 book, at the time Clinton made the statement, she believed her husband when he told her he had never had a sexual relationship with a White House intern. The irony of Conway choosing a statement Clinton made that then led to a proper admission of sexual misconduct against President Bill Clinton also did not escape people’s notice.An incredibly poor choice of words by Kellyanne, considering we now know what a dog and how guilty Bill Clinton was. #foxnews @KimStrassel @MisruleofLaw @realDonaldTrump https://t.co/W2IiwdEVuK Eric G. Olsen (@egolawdotcom) September 24, 2018Others took exception to Conway trying to pass things off as simply a conspiracy while also claiming she and the President respect the women and want them to be heard.It’s always a conspiracy when the truth is discovered about the terrible person selected by @realDonaldTrump #KavaNOPE Wendimyb (@wendimyb) September 24, 2018Every time someone gets in hot water in this administration it’s a conspiracy Michelle Sabata (@SabataMichelle) September 24, 2018#MuellerIsComingForYouToo #SewerRatBarbie pic.twitter.com/Dy6ZLtu88L Harmony Aquarian (@HarmonyAquarian) September 24, 2018A left-wing conspiracy. As opposed to straight-up sexual assault? Corgi Girl (@barblet30) September 24, 2018Yeah, the left planted women 35 years ago and were waiting for this day. RJ (@RJSprouse) September 24, 2018No, Kellyanne. It sounds like a bad guy from an 80’s teen movie is alive and well and days away from being one of the most powerful persons in the country. Mark Girard (@coachG61) September 24, 2018No @KellannePolls it’s starting to look like your boy is a sexual predator. Hard to smear someone who is squeaky clean! Kathleen O’Brien (@queenbee5187) September 24, 2018I think conspiracy is the new fake news chant for fall 2018 Republican dodgeballers.. pic.twitter.com/bUKn4Tj6OB Kenny Castle (@KennyKascoolio) September 24, 2018Interesting.. Here are two examples to consider: 1. Neither was Al Franken, but he was forced to resign. 2. Merrick Garland.. if you are interesting in equivalency, his nomination was held hostage from Feb. until 45 became president. Susan Brochin (@srbrochin) September 24, 2018Some had issues with Conway’s credibility…	Liberal
On his way to deliver a speech before the United Nations in New York, President Donald Trump stopped to answer a reporter’s question about his embattled Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. To paraphrase Tammy Wynette, Trump plans to “stand by his man.”The President stated:“He’s a fine man with an unblemished past, and these are highly unsubstantiated claims by people represented by lawyersyou should look into the lawyers doing the representationJudge Kavanaugh is an outstanding person and I am with hm all the way…”“…I think it could bethere’s a chance that this could beone of the single most unjust, unfair things to happen to a candidate for anything. But I am with Judge Kavanaugh and I look forward to a vote.”“And for people to come out of the woodwork 36 years ago, 30 years ago, and never mention it, all of a sudden it happens, in my opinion it’s political, it’s totally political.”Watch video of the President’s statement here.The Senate Judiciary Committee hearings already drew controversy for pushing forward with less than 10 percent of Kavanaugh’s record made available and charges of perjury against Kavanaugh based on false statements he made in his prior Senate confirmation hearing in 2006.We’re quickly finding out why they wouldn’t release 100k records. Imagine all the other shit in there.#StopKavanagh #TraitorTrump FredRock ?? (@fredrock715) September 24, 2018But then it was revealed Dr. Christine Blasey Ford contacted first her House Representative who directed her to Senate Judiciary Committee Senior Minority member, Republican Senator Dianne Feinstein, with allegations of sexual assault against Kavanaugh. Ford was 15 at the time of the assault and Kavanaugh attended a nearby all boys boarding prep school.Then a second woman came forward and now a third may soon come forward as well. Republican leaders on the Judiciary Committee originally stated Ford must appear before them on Monday or not at all, but later relented to working with Ford to accommodate her needs and pushed her testimony to Thursday.Now with new allegations emerging almost daily, Democrats requested the testimony be pushed even further back. No word yet on whether that request will be honored.President Trump’s statement at the UN in New York Monday morning drew heavy criticism online. Many brought the President’s own dubious past.Hes going to the mat with Kavanuagh because of Kavanaughs views on presidential power and the protection he offers Trump on the Russia investigation; any other president is withdrawing the nomination at this point and nominating Amy Barrett which makes the best political sense. Steve (@StratakosSteve) September 24, 2018pic.twitter.com/Yfv5SLQQog Peter Savas ?????? (@petesavas) September 24, 2018“As a sex offender with a history of supporting other sex offenders. I support him. Sad.”@realDonaldTrump Diamond Joe Biden (@realDiamondJoeB) September 24, 2018How hard is it to say, “Raping is bad”? Rogue Ivanka ???? (@IvankaRogue) September 24, 2018pic.twitter.com/YqNv4WCyys Betty Miller (@curlybettys) September 24, 2018In a review of several news organizations’ reports on the President’s comments, support for Trump or Kavanaugh is virtually nonexistent even on the President’s favorite network, Fox News as the following shows.	Liberal
In a statement, Republican Representative Paul Gosar criticized Dr. David Brill, his Democratic opponent, for capitalizing on “family political differences” after his opponent launched a series of campaign ads featuring six of Gosar’s siblings urging people not to vote for him in the upcoming midterm elections.“Those of my siblings who chose to film ads against me are all liberal Democrats who hate President Trump,” Gosar, an immigration hardliner who first won election in 2010 with the support of the Tea Party, told CNN in a statement.“These disgruntled Hillary suppporters[sic] are related by blood to me but like leftists everywhere, they put political ideology before family. Lenin, Mao and Kim Jung Un (sic) would be proud.”“You can’t pick your family. We all have crazy aunts and relatives etc and my family is no different. I hope they find peace in their hearts and let go all the hate,” Gosar continued.“To the six angry Democrat Gosars — see you at Mom and Dad’s house!”Gosar expressed similar sentiments on social media, saying that “Stalin would be proud” of his siblings’ political leanings.You cant pick your family.  We all have crazy aunts and relatives etc and my family is no different. I hope they find peace in their hearts and let go all the hate.  To the six angry Democrat Gosarssee you at Mom and Dads house! #AZ04 #MAGA2018— Paul Gosar (@DrPaulGosar) September 22, 2018My siblings who chose to film ads against me are all liberal Democrats who hate President Trump.  These disgruntled Hillary suppporters are related by blood to me but like leftists everywhere, they put political ideology before family.  Stalin would be proud. #Az04 #MAGA2018— Paul Gosar (@DrPaulGosar) September 22, 2018Gosar later shared aNew York Times article which quotedBernadette Gosar, the siblings 85-year-old mother, saying that she was “shocked” and “crushed” by the ads.I share the same philosophy and policies that Paul does, she said. Hes done a hell of a job for Arizona, and they love him.“I guess I really am Mom’s favorite!” Gosar, the oldest of nine siblings, six of whom are Democrats, said.I guess I really am Moms favorite! I share the same philosophy and policies that Paul does, she said. Hes done a hell of a job for Arizona, and they love him.  Awww.  Thanks #mom #Az04 #MAGA2018 https://t.co/9wV6JssOph— Paul Gosar (@DrPaulGosar) September 22, 2018Gosar’s statements prompted many to fire back, criticizing him for supporting many of President Donald Trump’s most harmful policies while acknowledging his familial rift.How awful do you have to be for your entire family to campaign against you?I guess weve found out.— Reverend Hexar (@ReverendHexar) September 24, 2018I think they like each other, they are just not fond of you and your politics. You are the odd man out here, you drank the Kool Aid.— amyjojohannson (@amyjojohannson) September 23, 2018You picked the vile, nasty, disgusting man who screwed a porn star while his wife was healing from giving birth, who has put children in cages, who tossed paper towels to people in Puerto Rico where 3,000 died cruel deaths over your own blood family. You are a piece of shit!— x  (@iskandrah) September 22, 2018https://twitter.com/pjackson_nl/status/1043667394495963136So mama, like her favorite, is also a racist conspiracy theorist?  Gotcha.— Linette Roach (@librabklyn) September 23, 2018This isn’t the first time Gosar’s siblings have spoken out against him so publicly.Seven brothers and sisters had previouslywritten a letterto Arizona newspaperThe Kingman Daily Miner criticizing Gosar after he claimed that the 2017 “Unite the Right” white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, was backed by George Soros, a billionaire liberal donor whom many conspiracy theorists is in cahoots with Hillary Clinton to usurp the current world order.	Liberal
Michael Avenatti revealed on Sunday that he is representing a third woman accusing Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct. Avenatti made the announcement in a series of tweets containing graphic questions about Kavanaugh’s behavior during his time at Yale University.“I represent a woman with credible information regarding Judge Kavanaugh and Mark Judge,” Avenatti wrote. “We will be demanding the opportunity to present testimony to the committee and will likewise be demanding that Judge and others be subpoenaed to testify. The nomination must be withdrawn.”I represent a woman with credible information regarding Judge Kavanaugh and Mark Judge. We will be demanding the opportunity to present testimony to the committee and will likewise be demanding that Judge and others be subpoenaed to testify. The nomination must be withdrawn.— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 23, 2018Avenatti shared an email exchange he had withMike Davis, Chief Counsel for Nominations for U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary, in which the attorney demands a “thorough, open and fair” investigation, “which is what the American public deserves. It must not be rushed and evidence/witnesses must not be hidden.”The email from Avenatti to Davis contained six questions for Kavanaugh based on “significant evidence” that Kavanaugh attended “multiple house parties in the Washington D.C. area during the early 1980’s,” at which the future judge and his college friends allegedly “would participate in the targeting of women with alcohol/drugs” and “allow a ‘train’ of men subsequently gang rape them.”The questions are as follows:“Did you ever target one or more women for sex or rape at a house party? Did you ever assist Mark Judge or others in doing so?”“Did you ever attend a house party during which a woman was gang-raped or used for sex by multiple men?”“Did you ever witness a line of men outside a bedroom at any house party where you understood a woman was in the bedroom being raped or being taken advantage of?”“Did you ever participate in any sexual conduct with a woman at a house party whom you understood to be intoxicated or under the influence of drugs?”“Did you ever communicate with Mike Judge or anyone else about your participation in a ‘train’ involving an intoxicated woman?”“Did you ever or object or attempt to prevent one or more men from participating in the rape, or taking advantage, of a woman at any house party?”My e-mail of moments ago with Mike Davis, Chief Counsel for Nominations for U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary. We demand that this process be thorough, open and fair, which is what the American public deserves. It must not be rushed and evidence/witnesses must not be hidden. pic.twitter.com/11XLZJBTtY— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 24, 2018Kavanaugh has denied all the accusations.The questions are profoundly disturbing.Good lord this is disturbing. He should drop out immediately. Posting this should have a trigger warning #StopKavanaugh— #WearBlackOnMonday (@MeeestarCoke) September 24, 2018If this is true he needs to go to jail.— MadameDefarge (@KarCranky) September 24, 2018People are wondering if there’s more to the story.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has been one of the most vocal critics of the Affordable Care Act (also known as Obamacare) since it’s inception.He’s frequently decried the bill as too expensive and an assault on the American taxpayer.Now the National Taxpayers Union Foundation has something to say about that. The Conservative group recently released a chart detailing that Trump’s recent tariffs against China will end up being a more expensive to taxpayers than the Affordable Care Act by four times as much.Oh, boy Trump tariffs cost more that Obama care costs pic.twitter.com/iV7u3YdMbA— Lonnie Hicks (@Lnnie) September 21, 2018The NTUF stated:President Trump recently announced plans to impose a10 percent taxon $200 billion of imports from China effective September 24, escalating to 25 percent effective January 1, 2019. When added to tariffs that have already been implemented, total trade taxes imposed on American consumers and businesses via unilateral executive action exceed all the taxes included in President Obamas Affordable Care Act (ACA).Unlike the Affordable Care Act, Trump’s tariffs were implemented through executive order, as the NTUF points out in criticizing the president. Trump’s tariffs are receiving more and more criticism throughout the nation as establishments warn of upticks in pricing and higher taxes seem inevitable.Thats just what those Midwest working class voters were demanding. Higher taxes!— Tom B (@TBro_6and12) September 21, 2018Trump should be impeached for economic sabotage.— JamesL (@GJameslorenzana) September 20, 2018Trump is about to be the biggest tax hiker in modern times. Do the math. Trump's tariffs are more costly than Obamacare's taxes.Can you say fraud, fake republican, mercantilist disaster#Tariffs #TradeWars https://t.co/axZdcNNHPo— David Biddle (@davidebiddle) September 20, 2018Tariffs *are* taxes, and Trump's taxes will punish consumers #Trumponomics  https://t.co/z6F15EEoPI— John Adams (@DailyAdams) September 20, 2018Here's an interesting fact, via a conservative anti-tax group: Trump's tariffs have so far cost *the middle class* four times as much as Obamacare cost the *rich.*From @kevindrum: https://t.co/CTRK580ffm pic.twitter.com/PCNCIUMnSl— Kevin Elliott (@DissentientOne) September 21, 2018This administration's tariffs include more taxes for Americans than Obamacare did. Arbitrary tariffs with no strategy will have us paying more for thousands of goods with no benefits. https://t.co/WKppentJVV https://t.co/WKppentJVV— Renee Hoagenson   (@ReneeHoagenson) September 20, 2018Trump has frequently cited a need to “take a stand” on China to defend the tariffs.	Liberal
California Democratic U.S. House candidate Ammar Campa-Najjar unveiled a savage attack ad on Thursday against his opponent, incumbent Republican Duncan Hunter, who last month was indicted along with his wife on charges of campaign finance violations, conspiracy, falsifying documents, and wire fraud.“Now is the time to put country over party and give someone new a chance,” the ad says.Campa-Najjar’s ad is a 30-second spliced-together clip of Fox News hosts blasting Hunter for his defense of the charges, specifically when he blamed his wife. Hunter scapegoated her by saying “she handled the finances” and that whatever wrongdoing occurred, she is equally responsible.Indicted Congressman Duncan Hunter is paying for ads to what should be his baseFox Newsto defend his embarrassing, criminal actions,Campa-Najjar tweetedon Thursday. So were airing this ad on Fox News & letting their anchors do the talking for us.Indicted congressman Duncan Hunter is paying for ads to what should be his base – @FoxNews – to defend his embarrassing, criminal actions. So we're airing this ad on Fox News & letting their anchors do the talking for us.Help keep this ad running!  https://t.co/K3tlqWBR9p pic.twitter.com/l0AhbBZ1wk— Ammar Campa-Najjar (@ACampaNajjar) September 20, 2018Campa-Najjar’s supporters love the ad. It’s simple, effective, and uses Hunter’s own words against him.Good luck! Great add!— Ann Wolff (@gratefulamw) September 20, 2018Well, let's get this ad out there!  Great job and let's get it done!—  Elizabeth (@socal2hot) September 20, 2018Great Ad, Ammar! Youve got my vote!— Marilynn Kimball (@MarilynnKimball) September 21, 2018https://twitter.com/CoolAqua1/status/1042833486464393216You've got my vote!— Lynda Vernia (@LyndaVernia) September 21, 2018Right on!— Tim W (@SDCA010) September 21, 2018This is great! Good job— Carla Peterson (@CarlaPe22191477) September 21, 2018https://twitter.com/Taylor97497403/status/1042928732598525952Awesome ad! We have got to vote #VoteBlueACampaNajjar2018— Firelily#DAT (@Lauriefirelily) September 20, 2018Campa-Najjar doubled down on his strategy by pointing out the disciplinary actions Hunter has faced in Congress resulting from the criminal charges.	Liberal
Maine Republican Senator Susan Collinsat an event in Portland, Mainespoke to reporters from her home state about a Twitter post by President Donald Trump.In his Friday morning post from Las Vegas, Trump attacked the validity of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s allegations of sexual assault by his Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh while also taking a swipe at Dr. Ford’s parents. The President posted:“I have no doubt that, if the attack on Dr. Ford was as bad as she says, charges would have been immediately filed with local Law Enforcement Authorities by either her or her loving parents. I ask that she bring those filings forward so that we can learn date, time, and place!”I have no doubt that, if the attack on Dr. Ford was as bad as she says, charges would have been immediately filed with local Law Enforcement Authorities by either her or her loving parents. I ask that she bring those filings forward so that we can learn date, time, and place! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 21, 2018Fordnow a college professorsaid she told no one about the alleged attack when she was 15 years old. However she later told a therapist, her husband and some friends. And Collins reply to Trump’s assertions about reporting sexual assault gave Ford’s account credence.“I was appalled by the Presidents tweet,” Collins said when asked for her reaction to Trump’s claims on Twitter.“First of all, we know that allegations of sexual assaultIm not saying thats what happened in this casebut we know allegations of sexual assault are one of the most unreported crimes that exist.”“So I thought that the Presidents tweet was completely inappropriate and wrong.”Republican Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowachair of the Senate Judiciary Committeeissued an ultimatum to Dr. Ford to appear and provide testimony on Monday or not at all. However, Dr. Ford asked to testify later in the week. She met Friday with FBI officials in San Francisco to discuss death threats she received after her allegations went public.Ford’s lawyer asked the Senate Judiciary Committee to delay her testimonyplanned and scheduled without her inputset for Monday, September 24, until Thursday, September 27. They also requested the committee take testimony from witnesses in addition to just Ford and Kavanaugh, as was done during the confirmation hearing of Justice Clarence Thomas.Democratic Senators Mazie Hirono of Hawaii and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York accused Grassley and the GOP of bullying Dr. Ford with their Monday deadline. They also questioned why Kavanaugh’s hearing is being handled differently than Justice Thomas’.And Maine’s Republican Senator also disagreed with her GOP colleague’s ultimatum. Collins would be comfortable allowing Ford to testify later in the week and said the Senate Judiciary Committee should make reasonable accommodations for her. Collins stated:“I do think that both she and Judge Kavanaugh need to testify under oath, but I believe we should attempt to make this as comfortable a process for her as possible.”“To me Monday is the preferred date but I dont see a problem with delaying to Wednesday or Thursday.”Senator Collins is under intense scrutiny as she may be a crucial vote in the Kavanaugh confirmation process. The Maine Republican stated the importance for her to hear from Ford.“Its very difficult to assess credibility if you dont get to see the person or hear them and thats what I want.”Watch the Portland Press Herald interview here.With the attention placed on Collins and a few other key Republican Senators, news of her statements regarding Trump’s Twitter post spread quickly online.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s tariffs on Chinese imports is hurting an iconic American company based in Columbus, Indiana, which is the hometown of Vice President Mike Pence. A representative of Cummins Manufacturing went on MSNBC to raise the alarm ofhow much the president’s trade war is costing their business.Speaking with MSNBC’s Vaughn Hillyard on Friday,Tracy Embree, president of Cummins’ components division said Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum have had a “pretty significant impact on us with some of our engines, specifically a piece called blocks and head.”Cummins, the world’s largest producer of diesel engines,has “no source in the U.S. for those parts,” Embree explained. “Right now capacity is not available, with the exception of suppliers in China.”The total financial impact on the company so far in 2018 is $100 million, which adds up to “$200 million annually,” according to Embree.Embree said Cummins is “aligned with the goals of the administration on the creation of strong trade agreements that are fair,” but that “tariffs are not the right answer to accomplish that.”Visibly frustrated, Embree added: “In fact, tariffs are harmful, tariffs are a tax, and that affects American workers, affects American companies.”Following her interview, Embree tweeted that international trade “has been the single biggest contributor to growth” for Cummins “for more than a decade.”Spent part of the afternoon with @VaughnHillyard from @NBCNews talking about intl trade and how its been the single biggest contributor to growth for @Cummins for more than a decade. pic.twitter.com/TE9D8RCk0k— Tracy Embree (@TracyEmbree) September 20, 2018As governor of Indiana, Pence cut taxes and set up trade deals with China specifically to benefit Cummins, which has grown into a $20 billion company.Since Trump and Pence took office, however, Cummins has expressed concern over the administration’s trade policies.Mike Pence's hometown is taking a hit due to Trump's tariffs."I'm very worried," said Tom Linebarger, the head of Cummins, the biggest employer in Columbus, Indiana, who warns of job losses ahead because thousands of jobs in the area depend on trade.https://t.co/m0GW3Lrrfa— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 22, 2018In July, Cummins CEO Tom Linebarger told The Washington Post that he was “very worried” about potential job losses due to the company’s dependence on Chinese exports.	Liberal
At some point in most people’s lives, the wrong thing is said at the wrong moment. The best course is to recognize and acknowledge the mistake and apologize. A sincere apology and genuine remorse can mend most rifts caused by misspeaking.Or there is the option of going to Twitter and telling people to “lighten up.” Republican Representative Ralph Norman of South Carolina chose the second option.In order to bring some levity to the discussion of sexual assault, Norman decided a joke would help. Norman also thought a joke about a President sexually assaulting one of the four femaleout of 113 totalSupreme Court justiceswhich also mocked her agewould be particularly witty.In front of cameras and constituents at the beginning of a debate with his Democratic opponent, Archie Parnell, Norman decided to open with a joke. He said:“I thought I was going to be late. Did yall hear the latest, late-breaking news from the Kavanaugh hearings? Ruth Bader Ginsburg came out that she was groped by Abraham Lincoln. I thought I was going to have to get back there but we dont.”Watch his remarks here. The Kiwanis Club Internationalorganizers and hosts of the debate between 5th Congressional District candidates Ralph Norman and Archie Parnellissued a statement Friday. The civic organization explained their reasons for hosting the debate and their reaction to Norman’s comment.Kiwanis International governor Mary Jo Brubaker stated:“The club was disappointed with Rep. Normans joke about Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, alleging she had been groped by Abraham Lincoln. The joke was not funny, it was in poor taste, and it absolutely does not reflect the values of our club.”“Video and audio recordings of the debate clearly demonstrate that a very small minority of the audience laughed or clapped at his joke. The audience included club members and their guests, as well as a number of guests invited directly by the two campaigns.”After the video of the debate received national attention, it turned out many people found sexual assault or age jokes about Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg unfunny. Most people found any joke about sexual assault distasteful and they let Representative Norman know.As Norman is up for reelection in November, he sought to clear his name and make amends with those who do not laugh about sexual assault. He posted a three part message placing the blame where he felt it belonged: his opponent, the media, Washington and anyone who did not laugh.1 of 3: My comments earlier today were meant to add a bit of levity to a very serious debate between me and my Democrat opponent and to point to the circus-like atmosphere that Washington DC has become. People really need to learn to lighten up. Ralph Norman (@RalphNorman) September 20, 20182 of 3: Clearly my opponent understood it that way since for the next hour we engaged in a substantive discussion about our many differences without mention of my comments. Ralph Norman (@RalphNorman) September 20, 20183 of 3: Once again, the Democrats and the media have taken an event that was newsworthy for so many substantive reasons and are now only adding more clowns and distractions to the current circus. Ralph Norman (@RalphNorman) September 20, 2018Based on reactions to Norman’s Twitter declaration, his choice to stand behind his sexual assault joke and not apologize backfired, as the following show.	Liberal
After a short period of uncharacteristic restraint regarding Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s allegations of sexual assault against his Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump took to Twitter on Friday in an attempt to discredit Ford’s statements.The president praised Kavanaugh’s character, decrying the allegations against him and subsequent demands from Democrats that they be investigated.Judge Brett Kavanaugh is a fine man, with an impeccable reputation, who is under assault by radical left wing politicians who dont want to know the answers, they just want to destroy and delay. Facts dont matter. I go through this with them every single day in D.C.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 21, 2018The president said that if the assault was “as bad as she says,” there would be filings with state authorities. He criticized Ford’s legal team for allegedly waiting 36 years to call for an investigation, despite Ford insisting she revealed the incident to no one until telling her husband of it around 2002 then elaborating on it in therapy in 2012.I have no doubt that, if the attack on Dr. Ford was as bad as she says, charges would have been immediately filed with local Law Enforcement Authorities by either her or her loving parents. I ask that she bring those filings forward so that we can learn  date, time, and place!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 21, 2018The radical left lawyers want the FBI to get involved NOW. Why didnt someone call the FBI 36 years ago?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 21, 2018Previously, the president had expressed doubt on the allegations, but still relayed that Ford should have her say. Now, many are criticizing his reversal.So much for the restraint his aides were touting this week in Trumps comments on Dr. Ford. Hes back to tweeting things like facts dont matter and now blaming the accuser. https://t.co/9jM5uZ8oe2— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) September 21, 2018She'll produce those filings soon as you produce your tax returns.— David Fagin (@nikchapman) September 21, 2018Right, Donnie, that's exactly what 15 year old girls (or boys) do when they are sexually assaulted, especially in the 1980s when they had myriad examples of sexual assault being swept under the carpet by respected institutions like the church, schools, govt.— Chris (@cbeiter) September 21, 2018A high school student was supposed to go to the FBI??? What difference would it make if papers were filed? You want papers? Here's a court filing for the brutal rape of a 13 year old girl at the hands of 2 sick, twisted monsters, one is now president…https://t.co/YqHzDHxijX— Something Something (@pat_mag) September 21, 2018Dear @SenateMajLdr & @SpeakerRyan: I hope you're enjoying watching your illegit, crooked, corrupt sociopath president destroy your party and its chances in Nov. And you two are complicit and just as crooked. Congrats. Your party is DEAD. #GOP #Trump #2018Midterms #BlueTsunami— Andy Ostroy (@AndyOstroy) September 21, 2018For someone whos bragged about assaulting many women, you really have a shitty understanding of how those things play out.— Jon Bershad (@JonBershad) September 21, 2018Though his attacks weren’t exactly a surprise.I knew it was only a matter of time before the #AssaulterInChief would say something stupid about this. He has no empathy. He is the most self-centered, narcissistic human being I have ever seen in my entire life.#WorstPresidentEver #WorstHumanEver #IBelieveHer— Lennie Appelquist (@lenapple) September 21, 2018 You can always count on Trump to do the most despicable thing possible, especially when it comes to women. It was only a question of when, not if, he would attack Dr. Ford.— Matthew Miller (@matthewamiller) September 21, 2018Trump's relative restraint on Ford's accusations lasted five days. He is now following his own playbook for sexual assault claims of deny, retaliate and repeat. https://t.co/uMlMIlYF4T— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) September 21, 2018Wow, who else was taking bets on when hed say something stupid or hateful? Do you know about every man who touched your daughters inappropriately, I mean besides you.— Amy (@RosewoodGirlz) September 21, 2018I guess somebody was hiding your phone over the weekend. I knew you couldn't last too much longer without coming out to start denigrating this woman. I knew it was just a matter of time. Just sad.— KarenW (@karen822) September 21, 2018As some pointed out, Trump’s most recent attacks against Ford mirror his own relationship with sexual assault allegations.	Liberal
Speaking at a rally in Las Vegas, Nevada last night, President Donald Trump criticized California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom during a spiel about Democrats and their stance on illegal immigration, calling Newsom a “clown.”Democrats want to give welfare and free health care to illegal aliens, Trump said. How about this clown in California whos running for governor? He wants open borders, and then he wants to give them health care, education, everything.Newsom replied shortly afterward, taking Trump to task for his “zero tolerance” child separation policy which has exacerbated an already fraught humanitarian crisis on our nation’s southern border, before then comparing Trump to perhaps the nastiest clown of all.Interesting description coming from the guy who is literally locking up kids like Pennywise, he wrote, referring to the child-snatching Pennywise the Dancing Clown from Stephen King’s bestselling novelIt, a character which was first played with great aplomb by Tim Curry in a television miniseries and later byBill Skarsgrd in last year’s critically acclaimed feature film adaptation.lol, hi @realDonaldTrump.  Interesting description coming from the guy who is literally locking up kids like Pennywise. pic.twitter.com/bt49kyGk9Z— Gavin Newsom (@GavinNewsom) September 21, 2018Many found the comparison to be quite apt. First, the Trump-as-Pennywise memes commenced… pic.twitter.com/etZDUH2gNy— Highland Fashionista (@Highlandista) September 21, 2018#Quarterstupid pic.twitter.com/7n3j41lb2e— Big Tommy Mac Cant Lose  (@DJDaddi01) September 21, 2018…with at least one person coming to Pennywise’s defense.Pennywise is MUCH nicer than Donald Trump…— Ann Ducommun (@aduke5) September 21, 2018Another pointed out that Newsom’s nickname for Trump isn’t exactly original…I've referred to him President Pennywise since hw was elected. Great to see others who see the similarities.— MNDandelions (@MNDirtGirlz) September 21, 2018…while another pointed out the absurdity of Trump constantly calling people names.Why the constant name-calling?? Hes incapable of an adult conversation without resorting to childish behavior. Its embarrassing that our president acts this way. — Amy DiMuccio (@amooch1) September 21, 2018Trump continued to push for harsher immigration measures during his appearance, taking the opportunity to claim that Democrats have obstructed his plans for a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.They know we want the wall, Trump told the crowd at the Las Vegas Convention Center. They want to oppose it. They want to obstruct it. They want to resist. You know their campaign. They want to resist.Trump often came under fire on the campaign trail for referring to Mexicans as rapists and murderers.In the days since the body of Mollie Tibbetts, a Brooklyn, Iowa college student was found, Trump and many conservatives have seized on the fact that the suspect,Cristhian Bahena Rivera, is a Mexican national who authorities say was in the country illegally, and have used the murder to make the case for harsher immigration legislation.In June. the president and his administration created a crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border when he and Jeff Sessions, his attorney general, announced their zero tolerance family separations policy.The president blamed Democrats for the policy, imploring them to start thinking about the people devastated by Crime coming from illegal immigration.It is the Democrats fault for being weak and ineffective with Boarder Security and Crime. Tell them to start thinking about the people devastated by Crime coming from illegal immigration. Change the laws!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 18, 2018The president denied that he or Sessions had anything to do with the policy, even as he admitted that the policy is anegotiating tool to get Democrats to cave to his demands (which include tougher border security as well as a wall erected along the nations southern border).	Liberal
Back in December, Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell stated:“If we cant sell this to the American people, we ought to go into another line of work.”The Kentucky Senator made the statement after the Republican controlled Senate passed the tax plan endorsed by President Donald Trump and the GOP. Now it looks like some of McConnell’s colleaguesand maybe even McConnellmay need to find new jobs.In a poll conducted by the Republican National Committee (RNC), public opinion of the GOP tax plan passed in December 2017 is less than favorable. The one piece of legislation held up as the major achievement of the Trump administration failed to impress voters.This news does not bode well for the GOP heading into November’s midterm elections.The key to the success of selling the Trump tax reform lay in convincing middle and working class voters that they somehow benefit from the GOP designed tax cuts. But it appears most are not buying what Trump and the GOP are selling.Voters responding to the poll overwhelmingly viewed the GOP tax plan as a benefit to corporations and the rich, not the middle class or workers. Dubbed the “Tax and Jobs Act” by Trump and his party, 61 percent of respondents said the new tax law benefits “large corporations and rich Americans” over “middle class families.” Only 30 percent felt families benefited.The Trump tax cuts did one thing: give rich people more money https://t.co/pwHHYfwYWT pic.twitter.com/1VkItpXFrF Jonathan Chait (@jonathanchait) September 20, 2018In the words of the RNC poll report:“Voters are evenly divided on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. But, weve lost the messaging battle on the issue.”While the data concerning their tax plan shows that perception is true, the GOP hoped to convince their supporters and other voters otherwise. The poll, completed September 2 byRNC firm Public Opinion Strategies however found voters evenly divided as far as approval of tax reform with 44 percent for and 45 percent against.The even split benefited from strong support from GOP voters and an evenly split independent vote.The GOP tax plan dropped the corporate tax rate permanently to 21 percent from 35 percent. It also temporarily reduced individual tax rates, doubled standard deduction, eliminated or capped some itemized deductions and created a special tax break for “pass-through businesses” until the end of 2025.According to an analysis from the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, by 2025, “25 percent of the gains will go to the top 1 percent while 66 percent of the benefits will go to the top one-fifth of earners.” Meanwhile, with reductions in itemized deductions, some middle and working class taxpayers may pay more in taxes.By 2027, 83 percent of the GOP tax plan benefits go to the top 1 percent.Trump signed his new tax law on December 22. The legislation went ahead without a single Democrat voting in favor of the changes.And some voters will remember who voted for the bill dubbed the #GOPTaxScam while at the polls in November.Republicans gave huge tax cuts to corporations and the top 1%. Now, thanks to the #GOPTaxScam, millions of Americans could be paying more in taxes for 2018. https://t.co/rMT0ThTTbX Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) September 20, 2018But the perception of the benefits of the GOP tax cuts was not the only bad news from the RNC poll.	Liberal
Christine Blasey Ford, the California professor accusing Brett Kavanaugh of attempting to rape her at a high school party in the 1980’s, shut down a right-wing conspiracy claiming she mixed up Kavanaugh with a similar-looking classmate.On Wednesday, Ed Whelan, a former clerk to Justice Antonin Scalia and friend of Kavanaugh, shared an op-ed in the Washington Postwhich asked if there could have been a “Kavanaugh-ish-looking teen at the house that night, who might have attacked Ford?”And from Kathleen Parker: "Could there have been another, Kavanaugh-ish-looking teen at the house that night, who might have attacked Ford?" https://t.co/2eV7ClHXfH— Ed Whelan (@EdWhelanEPPC) September 19, 2018Kavanaugh also claimed he may be the victim of mistaken identity.Kavanaugh tells Hatch accusation may be mistaken identity https://t.co/cY6whTwQaZ via @YahooNews— Ed Whelan (@EdWhelanEPPC) September 18, 2018In a series of tweets which have since been deleted, Whelan said Ford might be remembering the wrong man.“Dr. Ford may well have been the victim of a severe sexual assault by someone 36 years ago,” Whelan wrote.“Her allegations are so vague as to such basic matters as when and where that it is impossible for Judge Kavanaugh to *prove* his innocence.”Whelan then posted maps, images, and floor plans of the house in which Ford’s assault supposedly took place, adding that “there are compelling reasons to believe his [Kavanaugh’s] categorical denial.”Whelen admitted however that he “no idea what, if anything did or did not happen” despite sharing pictures of Kavanaugh and the classmate who looked like him, noting that many people “have commented on how much they resembled each other in appearance.”On Thursday, Ford brushed off Whelan’s conspiracy theory.“I knew them both, and socialized with” Kavanaugh’s doppelganger, Ford said in a statement. She said she even visited him in the hospital.“There is zero chance that I would confuse them,” Ford said.On Friday morning, Whelan apologized on Twitter to the man he wrongfully tried to claim may have been Ford’s attacker.I made an appalling and inexcusable mistake of judgment in posting the tweet thread in a way that identified Kavanaugh's Georgetown Prep classmate. I take full responsibility for that mistake, and I deeply apologize for it. I realize that does not undo the mistake.— Ed Whelan (@EdWhelanEPPC) September 21, 2018Twitter wants to know when Whelan is going to apologize to Ford.I see youre not apologizing for the concept of accusing Ford of a false allegation, only for posting the thread in a way that identified the classmate. So your apology is merely recognizing the legal jeopardy of what you did re: the classmate. Apology not accepted.— Jessica Nichols (@JessNicholsArt) September 21, 2018You also owe Dr. Ford an apology.— Marisa Nadolny (@TheMDesk) September 21, 2018Whelan faced significant blowback on social media from people across the political spectrum.	Liberal
Attorneys for Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who alleges Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in high school,spoke with attorneys for the Senate Judiciary Committee and laid out conditions for her appearance before the panel.These conditions, which Dr. Ford’s attorneys presented over the course of an hour-long telephone call which marked the first time Republicans have spoken with Dr. Ford’s legal team since she went public, are as follows:NEWS 1st to @NBCNews: An email sent from Dr Fords Attorney to participants of the call with Judiciary Cmte staff lays out what was discussed during Thursdays Call about a possible Hearing with Kavanaugh and Dr Ford. LINK: https://t.co/eQUr59xWJ7 pic.twitter.com/jYVfBQlzkF— Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) September 21, 2018Debra Katz, one of Dr. Ford’s attorneys, sentto the participants on the call a letter reiterating their position. The letter reads, in part:“I want to be clear about our position. The only issue I said was adeal breaker was that Dr. Ford cannot appear at a hearing on Monday for the reasons I described, and relatedly, that the demand that she submit written testimony by 10:00 a.m. tomorrow is a non-starter. It is simply not possible for her to prepare such testimony while at the same time trying to take appropriate security precautions in the face of the avalanche of threats she has been receiving. She needs sufficient time to settle things with her family in California, travel east, and prepare for her testimony.”Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, convened with his fellow Republicans and is expected to present Dr. Ford with a counter offer as early as Friday. The most controversial of Dr. Ford’s requestsis expected to be the subpoena of Judge, who wrote a letterto the Senate Judiciary Committee in which he stated he has no intention of cooperating with the committee in any way. It is not likely that Republicans wouldallow a witness to dictate a subpoena of another witness.The response to these claims has run the gamut from curious…A big question about what Christine Blasey Ford would view as a "fair" hearing:Are other witnesses (Mark Judge) needed? He doesn't want to testify. GOP doesn't seem to want him to. But he's an alleged eye-witness.— Aaron Blake (@AaronBlake) September 20, 2018…to incredulous…The terms are: You answer questions under oath.  This woman sounds mentally ill.— Mark Dice (@MarkDice) September 20, 2018It is her loss. I guess she has to take lessons from the Dems on how to  humiliate herself in the public eyes, while testifying a lie. — Sheila Ryan (@SheilaRyanDC) September 20, 2018…to skeptical…She'll probably get safety (if anything, the GOP will go overboard w/an entire military platoon to "prove" how much they care about her safety), but she won't get fair terms.— Charles Gaba (@charles_gaba) September 20, 2018Its certainly not her move. My guess is that security thing is a ruse knowing people like you would grasp for it.— Bill Ferris (@cwferris) September 20, 2018…to supportive.If Kavanaugh supporters are so sure he has nothing to hide, and he's "chomping at the bit" to testify, then sounds to me that he'd be happy to go first.  She can press state charges against him at any time she wants which will trigger an investigation. She holds the cards.— Darlene (@DarMV) September 21, 2018Theyve wasted so much time arguing over doing an FBI investigation, they probably could have started and finished the investigation by now.— Anbritt Stengele (@anbrittstengele) September 21, 2018It's absurd that she's been asked to sit in the same room!!! No way.It's also absurd that the investigation won't be done first.It's really too bad that the Republicans are a shameful bunch these days.— carol w (@carol9w) September 21, 2018In a letter sent to the Judiciary Committee, Kavanaughsaid he looked forward to the Monday hearing, saying that he wanted one as soon as possible, so that I can clear my name.Since the moment I first heard this allegation, I have categorically and unequivocally denied it, he wrote. I remain committed to defending my integrity.	Liberal
After a whirlwind of speculation on whether Dr. Christine Blasey Ford would testify in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee on sexual assault allegations against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, an email from Ford’s attorney Debra Katz may have given an answer. Katz said in the email to the Senate Judiciary Committee that Ford still wishes to testify, but negotiations would have to be made to ensure the safety of her client, who has suffered harassment and death threats after coming forward. Katz insisted that those assurances couldn’t be secured adequately before Monday.Initially, Ford was open to testifying then requested an FBI investigation of the allegations before facing questions from the committee. According to Katz, it is still Ford’s “strong preference” that an investigation be conducted, but it appears Ford may be amenable to testifying without it if other conditions are met.NEW: Text of e-mail from Christine Blasey Ford's lawyer to Senate Judiciary Committee. pic.twitter.com/UlRZVEUhxm— Sheryl Gay Stolberg (@SherylNYT) September 20, 2018While the FBI investigation may not occur, Katz demanded on behalf of her client that the hearing previously scheduled for Monday be moved back to ensure Ford’s safety.“A hearing on Monday is not possible and the Committee’s insistence that it occur then is arbitrary in any event.”Hours later, Kavanaugh himself sent a letter to the committee reiterating his desire to testify and “clear [his] name.”Katz’s statement highlights a point that Democrats have made in regards to the Committee Republicans’ rush to confirm Kavanaugh to the court. It’s undoubtedly ideal for Republicans to confirm Kavanaugh before the 2018 midterms, when the legislature could shift in Democrats’ favor and jeopardize the Supreme Court appointment.However, lawmakers and citizens alike are pointing out that this doesn’t justify a rush to confirm him to a lifetime post.Republicans held Justice Scalias seat open for more than 400 days. Justice Kennedys seat has been vacant for less than two months. It's more important to investigate a serious allegation of sexual assault than to rush Kavanaugh onto the Supreme Court for a lifetime appointment.— Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) September 20, 2018Brett Kavanaugh is up for a lifetime appointment to the nations highest court. Dr. Ford  and the American people  deserve a full investigation. Republicans shouldnt rush this. We need to take the time to get it right.— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) September 19, 2018Now that #ChristineFord lawyer has indicated she is willing to testify next week,  there is no justification for @ChuckGrassley to arbitrarily demand that the #Kavanaugh hearing occur on Monday. What is the rush?  This is an appointment to the highest court for life.— Richard A. Arenberg (@richarenberg) September 20, 2018To be clear:There is *no* legitimate arg for rushing a Kav vote. None.1) Short-handed Sup Ct? Please. GOP happy to leave it 4-4 for year-plus rather than consider Garland.2) Doing it while GOP has Senate majority? That will last till end of this year.No reason. Pure muscle https://t.co/qBqQqQx9Ni— James Fallows (@JamesFallows) September 20, 2018If you just read and listen, people really do tell on themselves.Mr graham here just tweeted to the public that the only reason he wants to expedite the kavanaugh situation is because of the midterm elections.I wonder why, oh why, that might be. https://t.co/rnuw3AfQqj— Marco Gonzalez (@furryburrito28) September 20, 2018Before the possibility of a hearing next week was put back on the table, Democrats were adamant that an FBI investigation was necessary.	Liberal
New York Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand took President Donald Trump, the Trump administration, her Republican colleagues and Brett Kavanaugh to task Thursday during an address at the Capital. She was joined by Hawaii Democratic Senator Mazie Hirono and a group of alumnae from Holton-Arms High School, the alma mater of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committeeled by Chuck Grassley of Iowacontinued to demand Ford testify before them on Monday. However Gillibrand stated that basic procedure demands otherwise.Gillibrand stated:“Shes not asking for extraordinary measures, shes asking for basic fairness.”Watch an excerpt from the Senator’s address during the press conference here.With other female senators decrying Republican “bullying” of Kavanaugh accuser, Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand says Republicans “would like a he said-she said scenario, because you know what happens in those scenarios? The men are typically believed.” https://t.co/b4dwg6b5os pic.twitter.com/IkreQDgjHc ABC News (@ABC) September 20, 2018Gillibrand referred to the Senate confirmation hearing for Justice Clarence Thomas. She stated Ford asked for no more than what was afforded Dr. Anita Hill when she testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1991.Gillibrand also suggested things should be better than 27 years ago, not worse. A full background checka requirement for every Supreme Court nomineewas completed on Thomas, including the allegations made by Hill.However the White House and GOP blocked efforts to conduct the same investigation Thomas submitted to when asked to do it on Kavanaugh. Gillibrand stated:“Who is not asking the FBI to investigate these claims? The White House. Judge Kavanaugh has not asked to have the FBI to review these claims. Is that the reaction of an innocent person? It is not. We have to get to the bottom of this.”Multiple outlets posted different excerpts from Gillibrand’s address. The Senator herself shared an excerpt captured by CBSN.I believe Dr. Christine Blasey Ford.Shes not asking for extraordinary measures; shes asking for basic fairness.I hope that every woman in America is paying close attention to what is happening in the U.S. Senate right now. pic.twitter.com/0CtqpAAvBf Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) September 20, 2018Gillibrand was not alone in calling out Senator Grassley and the GOP. Senator Hirono also had strong words for her colleague.Mazie Hirono tells ABC that Chuck Grassley’s claim that Republicans have done everything they can to contact Dr. Ford “is such bullshit I can hardly stand it.” pic.twitter.com/cPUr0EeI0R Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) September 20, 2018Today, @SenGillibrand and I accepted a letter signed by over 1,000 alumnae of @HoltonArms in support of and in solidarity with Dr. Christine Blasey Ford. I will enter it into the Committee record to show that we are standing together because we #BelieveWomen. pic.twitter.com/P11sLAqoDY Senator Mazie Hirono (@maziehirono) September 20, 2018Reactions to Gillibrand’s impassioned plea were mixed on Twitter:	Liberal
British street artist Plastic Jesus gave President Donald Trump’s Hollywood Walk of Fame a super shady makeover this week, but instead of defacing or damaging it, Plastic Jesus placed prison bars over the sidewalk monument.“Today I put @realDonaldTrump behind bars,” Plastic Jesus tweeted on Wednesday.Today I put @realDonaldTrump behind bars. #donaldtrump #ImpeachTrump pic.twitter.com/WwYgEfLIMt— Plastic Jesus (@plasticjesusart) September 19, 2018Plastic Jesus also shared footage of passersby admiring the latest… upgrade… to Trump’s star to his Instagram.	Liberal
If youve ever wondered why your in-laws continue to believe the earth is flat and climate change is a hoax, scientists may have found the answer  and it has nothing to do with intelligence.A group of developmental psychologists from the University of Rochester and UC Berkeley discovered that feedback trumps (no pun intended) facts and physical evidence when it comes to beliefs and decision making.The study, published in mid-August in Open Mind, recruited 500 adults through Amazons Mechanical Turk gig marketplace and asked them to identify which colored shapes were a Daxxy, and how sure they were of their choice. Because the concept of a Daxxy was made up by researchers, the participants had no idea what, exactly, constituted one. As it turned out, however, their surety increased exponentially if recent guesses had proven correct.If you use a crazy theory to make a correct prediction a couple of times, you can get stuck in that belief and may not be as interested in gathering more information, said study senior author Celeste Kidd of UC Berkeley.In other words, if the participants were told they were doing well, they tended to be 100 percent certain this was true and discontinued further investigation.What we found interesting is that they could get the first 19 guesses in a row wrong, but if they got the last five right, they felt very confident, said lead study author Louis Marti in a release. Its not that they werent paying attention, they were learning what a Daxxy was, but they werent using most of what they learned to inform their certainty.Much like birthers and 9/11 conspiracy theorists bolstering each others views on Facebook and message boards, positive feedback that ones views are correct could  and does quash curiosity, which could lead a person to discover facts that contradict long-held beliefs.“If you think you know a lot about something, even though you don’t, you’re less likely to be curious enough to explore the topic further, and will fail to learn how little you know,” Marti said.The recent study paints a more nuanced picture than previous research, which had indicated that those who believe in conspiracy theories like chemtrails, alien landings covered up by the government, or the fact the moon landing may have been faked have low self-esteem or narcissistic tendencies.	Liberal
Like other rap artists before him, Calvin Cordozar Broadus, Jr.better known by his professional name Snoop Doggexpanded his resume beyond music. Therapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, television personality, actor and soon to be cookbook author now adds political commentator to that list.In an appearance on the Sirius XM radio show Hip Hop Nation, host DJ Suss One began to broach the subject of President Donald Trump with his guest Snoop Dogg. DJ Suss One apologized, then retracted his apology stating:“All right, now politics real quick now. We all here nowI apologizenaw, I really don’t apologize man, because a lot of my fans get madat me when I talk bad about him, but I don’t. I think it’s safe to say most people in our culture do not…”Snoop Dogg interjected:“Well, you need to know that, you need to know that a lot of your fans is racist. Ain’t no f***ing way around it. Don’t even try to put no cut around it.”When DJ Suss One indicated he would not go so far, Snoop Dogg reasserted:“I do. I don’t give a f***. I tell ’em straight up. Motherf***r, if you like that n***a, you motherf***ing racist, f*** you and f*** him. Now what?”DJ Suss One acknowledged Snoop Dogg’s view and the rapper continued with his point. Snoop Dogg stated:“Draw the line, n***a. He drew the lines.”“Exactly,” DJ Suss One concurred. Snoop Dogg continued:“He drew the motherf***ing lines. Before him, there were no lines. Everybody was everybody. We respected everything; we didn’t trip. But n***a, when you drew the line and start pointing motherf***rs out and singling them out, f*** y’all n***a. You and them.”“Yeah, that’s how I feel,” DJ Suss One replied, “if you’re just tuning in…” Snoop Dogg interjected again to state:“Kanye [West] too, n***a. Don’t forget about him too. F*** you too.”“Well,” DJ Suss One said, “this is what I was gonna say about that. I was going to bring up Kanye.”“Yeah,” Snoop Dogg agreed, “throw him in the bag too ‘cuz he right with them motherf***s.”Then the show host said he needed to ask about Snoop Dogg’s appearance at the 2011 Comedy Central Roast of Donald Trump. The rapper stated he was there roasting Trump and getting paid. Seth MacFarlane, another frequent critic of President Trump, hosted the roast back in 2011, before Trump officially entered politics.The video of the interview excerpt hit 100,000 views in about 24 hours. Reactions online were mixed.	Liberal
The Ebolavirus conjures up gruesome images of infected individuals with hemorrhages erupting all over the body. When the virus was first discovered during an outbreak in 1976 in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo), the extreme lethality of the virus assisted physicians in containing the spread of the disease. The symptoms would present early enough that emergency responders could easily separate and quarantine the infected from the healthy. More recent Ebolavirus outbreaks, however, such as the Western African outbreak between 2014 and 2016, have been more difficult to contain because the disease did not present indications of infection as early in exposed individuals, where the predicted incubation time could be doubled from 1-21 days to 1-42 days post-exposure. And new findings indicated the persistence of the Ebolavirus in the sexual fluids of survivors, which suggested Ebolavirus could be further expanded into a sexually transmitted disease. Thus, infected persons could travel greater distances away from the initial point of contact with the virus and potentially spread the virus over a wider area. The recent outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (or DRC) is further complicated by the insecurity of the region where the Ebolavirus has re-surged and the inability of the United Nations Peacekeepers to guarantee the safety of the doctors going into the field.Two weeks prior to the current outbreak in North Kivu, an epidemic of Ebolavirus in the North Bikoro region was declared contained. A genetic comparison of virus isolates from the two different outbreaks confirmed that the incidents are not linked, but that the viruses are from the same species of Ebolavirus Zaire. The North Bikoro region of the DRC is considerably safer and more stable, which afforded the responding medical personnel greater flexibility with their movements, research investigations, and treatment of affected people.Indeed, during the North Bikoro Ebola outbreak, the doctors were able to test five new Ebolavirus therapeutics as well as an experimental Ebolavirus vaccine. The vaccine produced by Merck, known as rVSV-ZEBOV, was used for implementation of a ring vaccination strategy. This approach involves vaccinating all uninfected individuals associated with a confirmed case of the disease. The new drugs that were evaluated while tackling the Bikoro epidemic included: GS5734, mAb114, and ZMapp. ZMapp had previously been used to treat two missionary workers that fell sick with Ebola during the 2014 outbreak in Liberia. GS5734 has shown promise at eliminating residual Ebolavirus in the semen of people who survived infection with the virus. And the experimental monoclonal antibody drug, mAb114, was made available to the DRC even though it has only made it to Phase I clinical trials.When Ebola was asserted to be contained in North Bikoro, it had claimed the lives of 33 people out of 54 reported cases. Some of the lives saved during the containment effort could be attributed to the usage of the currently unlicensed Ebola treatments and experimental vaccine.The current North Kivu outbreak will not afford medical personnel the opportunity to investigate the utility of those potentially life-saving therapeutics. This is primarily due to the violent instability of the region, which has been described as a conflict zone for an extended period of time with no sign of improvement in the near future. Containment strategies will most probably entail bringing doctors into outbreak areas for brief durations to administer to the sick and then be evacuated to a secure base of operations shortly thereafter. Therefore, there would be little to no time available for clinicians to perform the necessary interviews to trace contacts, so as to understand the path of infection and the level of efficacy of the treatments and vaccinations. Moreover, the advisory committee to the World Health Organization (WHO) that consults on these outbreaks has already recommended that there be no research until outbreak containment was underwayand well underway.Unfortunately, the North Kivu Ebola crisis has exceeded the death from the North Bikoro outbreak with 43 deaths out of 73 confirmed cases. The number of cases and deaths is only likely to increase with time and without a substantive effort on the part of the international medical community.The current North Kivu Ebola epidemic is seeing the virus spread across multiple cities within the region, cities with populations in the hundreds of thousands. It is both the DRCs most violent and populated area. The United Nations (UN) has developed a scoring system, from 1 to 5, for such security situations for evaluating when to allow personnel to be put in harm’s way. A level 5 region would necessitate the UN to evacuate. The North Kivu region is one step below that at a level 4. Any emergency responders dispatched by the WHO to assist in the Ebola containment effort would be required to have armed escorts with them at all times.	Liberal
The Trump administration is planning on cutting hundreds of millions of dollars from cancer and HIV research to cover the costs of keeping immigrant children in custody, Yahoo News reported on Wednesday.HHS is diverting millions of dollars in funding from a number of programs, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, to pay for housing for the growing population of detained immigrant children https://t.co/AlGWfZMlUx pic.twitter.com/ptFtKyiFDY— Yahoo News (@YahooNews) September 19, 2018Health & Human Services Secretary Alex Azar sent a letter to Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) earlier this month outlining the department’s plan to “reallocate up to $266 million in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 funding for the Unaccompanied Alien Children Program.”Azar also sent the letter to Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Representatives Tom Cole (R-OK) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT).“Nearly $80 million of that money will come from other refugee support programs” within the Office of Refugee Resettlement, Yahoo said.Additional funding will be redirected from services ranging from mental health, women’s shelters, and substance abuse programs. As of Wednesday, there are currently13,312 immigrant children in federal custody, according to ORR statisticsobtained exclusively by Yahoo. ORR’s facilities are at 92 percent capacity, Yahoo said.CNNon Thursday broke down which essential programs were being slashed to pay for the incarceration of migrant children:“The documents show a plan to take money from a variety of places, including $16.7 million from the child benefits program Head Start, $3.8 million from HIV programs as part of a bigger $16.7 million from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, $9.8 million from Medicare and Medicaid program operations, $2.2 million from maternal and child health programs, $5.8 million from the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program, $13.3 million from the National Cancer Institute and $87.3 million overall from the National Institutes of Health.”Earlier this month, the Department of Homeland Security shifted $10 million from FEMA to help cover the costs of immigrant detention – days before Hurricane Florence pounded the Carolinas and Virginia.HHS said in a statement that such requests are routine and the shifting of funds for migrant detention facilities can be traced back to 2012.“HHS is utilizing the Secretary’s transfer and reprogramming authorities to provide additional funds for the care of unaccompanied alien children,” said HHS Deputy Secretary Eric Hargan. “The funding will now likewise be used for increases in caseloads and unexpected surges in children needing care from our program. Unfortunately, the need for additional funds has grown since FY 2011, due to the continual increase of unaccompanied alien children at the border. These transfers are only a temporary solution to the sad consequence of a broken immigration system.”Since Congress is controlled by Republicans, the departments should face little resistance in their efforts.Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) told Yahoo on Wednesday that “we support making sure ORR gets all the resources they need to help kids, but that he and other key Democrats remained concerned over “a troubling pattern of chaotic, ideologically driven and opaque policymaking.”Van Hollen questioned whether the need for increased funding is arising from an increase in border crossings or because of President Donald Trump’s family separation policy. He also requested information on how the programs being cut will be impacted by the shift in budgeting and how the reallocated money will be used.What are “the reasons for the need for additional money and how much of it is because you have more UACs coming across the border and how much is due to the Trump administrations family separation policy?” the Maryland Democrat wants to know. He added that “the American public is entitled to the facts behind the policies here.”Van Hollen is not the only one concerned over the potential consequences ofsiphoning off resources from essential services.California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom (D) asked the president how he is able to sleep at night by cutting “programs to pay to INCARCERATE CHILDREN.”The Trump administration is diverting MILLIONS of dollars from cancer research, womens shelters, HIV/AIDS, substance abuse, mental, and maternal health programs to pay to INCARCERATE CHILDREN.Honestly – how do you even sleep at night, @realDonaldTrump?https://t.co/GETsh0v1jA— Gavin Newsom (@GavinNewsom) September 20, 2018California Democratic Senate candidate Kevinde Len, who is challenging incumbent Diane Feinstein from the left, tweeted to voters that the “choice is yours” on how our tax dollars are spent. Translated: VOTE.How would YOU want @realDonaldTrump to spend your hard-earned : locking children in cages, or funding cancer research? The choice is yours. #VOTE https://t.co/ZCtMbW3wyb— Kevin de Len (@kdeleon) September 20, 2018They weren’t alone.Donald Trump's cruel zero-tolerance policy is not only tearing children from parents, but tearing funding from cancer & HIV/AIDS research and Head Start, which provides education to low-income children. This is the man Bob Hugin gave $100K to help elect.https://t.co/73MxRQdODh— Menendez for NJ (@BobMenendezNJ) September 20, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s attorney Jay Sekulow claimed, without evidence, that an interview Trump sat down for with NBC’s Lester Holt, in which Trump said that one of his reasons for firing former FBI Director James Comey wasthe investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, was doctored.“You know that when there are interviews, there are edits and there is a longer transcript, and I will just tell you without disclosing any detail that when you review the entire transcript, it is very clear as to what happened,” Sekulow said, stressing that a line later in the interview that was cut makes Trump’s comments about “the Russia thing” look less damning (and considerably less like an admission of obstruction of justice).Trump lawyer Jay Sekulow says Trump ***never told Lester Holt he fired Comey over Russia***, says it was misleading edit, cites secret extended transcript the details of which he wont reveal. pic.twitter.com/YbtYBXmk9p— Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) September 20, 2018A confidential letter that Trump’s legal team sent to Mueller in January (and thatThe New York Times obtained this summer) outlines this argument:Because it has been so widely misreported and mischaracterized, we believe it is important to present the exchange in its entirety. What the President actually said was this: I was going to fire Comey knowing there was no good time to do it. And in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself  I said, you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. The President and Mr. Holt then talk over each other for approximately a minute, before the President completed his original thought by saying,As far as Im concerned, I want that thing [the Russia investigation] to be absolutely done properly. When I did this now, I said I probably maybe will confuse people. Maybe Ill expand that- you know, Ill lengthen the time because it should be over with. It should  in my opinion, shouldve been over with a long time ago because it  all it is an excuse. But I said to myself I might even lengthen out the investigation. But I have to do the right thing for the American people. Hes the wrong man for that position.Later in the interview, the following exchange took place:PRESIDENT: I want very simply a great FBI director.HOLT: And will you expect if they would  they would continue on with this investigation ….PRESIDENT: “Oh, yeah, sure. I expect that.However, the full context Sekulow alludes to has been in the public domain for more than 16 months, because MSNBC released the full interview after it was first recorded.“And the evidence, when you look at the entire evidence, you don’t see it,” Sekulow continued. “I’m not faulting anybody running a clip … but to turn it literally into a federal case we don’t think is right, we don’t think it’s constitutional and we think the entire transcript — without question — supports the President.”Sekulow claimed that the president’s legal team had mentioned this several times during talks with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigators, but he declined to provide further details, only saying that “we have addressed that on multiple occasions appropriately.”Sekulow’s claim echoes an allegation Trump made last month when he accused NBCand, by extension, Holtof “fudging” the tape. At the time,Trump suggested that NBC News Chairman Andrew Lack (to whom he bestowed a derogatory nickname) was about to be fired(?) for incompetence, and much worse.Whats going on at @CNN is happening, to different degrees, at other networks – with @NBCNews being the worst. The good news is that Andy Lack(y) is about to be fired(?) for incompetence, and much worse. When Lester Holt got caught fudging my tape on Russia, they were hurt badly!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018That statement was the first time Trump had suggested any impropriety about the interview in the 15 months since it first aired, and people don’t seem so quick to buy Trump’s version of events, let alone Sekulow’s insistence that the tape was doctored.California Representative Ted Lieu, a Democrat, said Trump and Sekuloware trying to discredit the tape becausethe notorious loose-lipped and tempestuous Trump “admitted to the elements of Obstruction of Justice on national TV.”Why do @realDonaldTrump & his attorney @JaySekulow so desperately want you to not believe your eyes and ears? Because they know @POTUS admitted to the elements of Obstruction of Justice on national TV. #ThursdayThoughts https://t.co/akPZXEWSZZ— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) September 20, 2018Others concurred.You know @JaySekulow is a shitty lawyer when you can view the entire unedited video online and he lies about it. Perhaps the @BarAssociation should look I to this unprofessional, dishonest and unethical behavior. #TrumpRussia https://t.co/wSglbvCNxU— Bad Hombre Jim  (@Phxflyer) September 20, 2018#FactCheck:  We ALL KNOW he said it.  @JaySekulow should apologize to Lester Holt for spreading this malicious mendaciousness! Do they think we're stupid? They need to think again. #ObstructionOfJustice #ResignTrump #WorstPresidentEver @realDonaldTrump @POTUS @JaySekulow Shame! https://t.co/PgTN1N23ti— Nahsteh Woahmuhn (@NahstehInYoFace) September 20, 2018If someone tells you not to believe in what you're seeing and hearing, then you should beware of that person's intentions, regardless of who it is.— American Dreamer (@America22744047) September 20, 2018.@NBCNews could release 10 hours of the interview and he'd still claim it was edited.@JaySekulow got great upper body strength gains from his goalpost moving.— Will isn't as cool as you. (@Antanith) September 20, 2018Hey @JaySekulow  which part of this is obviously doctored in the live interview? Seems to be exactly what he said, to me. pic.twitter.com/HosNhxwkxb— Angry WH Staffer (@AngrierWHStaff) September 20, 2018Last year, Trump, in the wake of his interview with Holt, rehashed hisstatements on Comey and criticized the media forpropagating a narrative he says is false.Not that it matters but I never fired James Comey because of Russia!” he wrote, in part.Not that it matters but I never fired James Comey because of Russia! The Corrupt Mainstream Media loves to keep pushing that narrative, but they know it is not true!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018The president’s claim prompted several, including Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) to share clips of him admitted just that.But regardless of recommendation, I was going to fire Comey knowing there was no good time to do it, Trump says in the clip from an interview he gave Holt at the time. And, in fact, when I decided to do it, I said to myself, I said, You know, this Russia thing, with Trump and Russia, is a made-up story, its an excuse.’.@realDonaldTrump tweets he didn't fire Comey over the Russia investigation.Let's go to the videotape: pic.twitter.com/VXIjcrBSwY— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) May 31, 2018MSNBC also shared the clip, noting that the presidents tweet contradicts what he told Holt during his televised appearance.In a tweet Thursday morning, President Trump says that "I never fired James Comey because of Russia!"This is how the president explained his thinking on Comey's firing to @LesterHoltNBC in May 2017. https://t.co/Z05kIXwh6z pic.twitter.com/CjA70BG1EI— MSNBC (@MSNBC) May 31, 2018"When I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story, it's an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should have won." https://t.co/Z05kIXwh6z— MSNBC (@MSNBC) May 31, 2018MSNBC also pointed to a quote Trump’s attorney Rudy Giuliani gave Fox News earlier that month. Giuliani said that Trump fired Comey “because Comey would not, among to other things, say that he wasn’t a target of the investigation.”Trump attorney Giuliani to Fox News earlier this month:"He fired Comey because Comey would not, among to other things, say that he wasnt a target of the investigation. Hes entitled to that."— MSNBC (@MSNBC) May 31, 2018In July, Giuliani again asserted thatTrump made it clear to Lester Holt that he [fired Comey] knowing that the [Russia] investigation would continue, so he couldnt obstruct it.” During that same interview, he said that reporters often “ignore this.”They conveniently leave that off whenever they play that tape, Giuliani said. Amazing what they do with tapes.	Liberal
If the rest of the world werent on fire, 2018 might be remembered as the year of reckoning for social media. Every week theres a new report of a company gathering and selling data without users permission. The latest installment comes from the Amazon Echo.In Oregon, a users Echo device recorded a conversation between the owner and her husband, then sent the audio to an acquaintance of the owner without her knowledge or permission. The acquaintance contacted the owner upon receiving the message, worried that the device might have been hacked.At first, my husband was like, No, you didnt, the owner said. And [the acquaintance was] like, You sat there talking about hardwood floors. And we said, Oh gosh, you really did!The story was originally reported by the CBS affiliate in Seattle, who was able to do what the owner was not: prompt a response from Amazon. The company claims that the owner and her husband inadvertently activated the system and confirmed that the message should be sent via the Echos Alexa voice activation. They claim that these commands are recorded in the systems logs, but the owner says that she was sitting next to the speaker with the volume at 7, and never heard any of Alexas voice prompts.Im never plugging that device in again, she said. I cant trust it.Amazon minimized the incident, saying that they have determined this was an extremely rare occurrence As unlikely as this string of events is, we are evaluating options to make this case even less likely. But the timing wasnt great. The admission came as Facebook confirmed it had been sharing user data with more than 60 device makers, including Apple and Samsung, since 2007. Facebook faced more uproar earlier this year when it acknowledged that it sold millions of users private data to political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, which used this data to target vulnerable voters during the 2016 US Presidential Election and the Brexit Campaign. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg faced a Congressional inquiry into that breach and was also called to testify before the EU assembly.	Liberal
Conservative lawmakers are leaping to discredit Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s claims that Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her at a party when the two were in high school. And Samantha Bee is having none of it.The comedian andFull Frontal with Samantha Beehost gave a scathing takedown of Kavanaugh’s defenders and the degree to which Americans in general defend white men accused of sexual assault, usually at the expense of the victim’s safety and reputation.With the trademark wit that’s made her a staple in living rooms and laptop screens across America, Bee provided the Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee with a much-needed reminder:“It’s never okay to try to rape somebody, not even in high school.”She also asked a relevant question:How is it never the right time to bring up assault allegations against a rich white dude? The womanBrock Turner rapedreported it immediately, and I guess that wasnt fair because it would ruin his future? Christine Blasey Ford reported Kavanaughs alleged assault 36 years later, and somehow shesalsoruining his future. How much future do rich white guys get to have?You can watch the clip below:Famously, Brock Turner, who attempted to rape an intoxicated woman behind a dumpster, was only given a six-month prison sentence, of which he only served three months. Many were horrified when his defenders requested leniency, citing Turner’s promising future as a swimmer.Now, similar defenses are being used to defend Kavanaugh in an effort to secure his lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court.People cheered Bee for her pointed reminder:.@iamsambee with the totally new information to Republicans: It's Never Okay to Rape Somebody https://t.co/KB0qy3HTBJ pic.twitter.com/4zqIjbrASl— Sarah Reese Jones (@PoliticusSarah) September 20, 2018Samantha Bee with the needed reminder: its never ok to try to rape somebody. #KavanaughHearings https://t.co/sqZOl8Z3ZM via @thedailybeast— Jean Podrasky  (@JeanPodrasky) September 20, 2018I am late on this tweet; but, I have to say that if you missed @FullFrontalSamB last night, you missed an amazing homage to Dr. Seuss…and the fact the #rape is NOT acceptable at ANY age or stage in life! #SamanthaBee #consent #MeToo https://t.co/8W4ERw6xQl— Mike Rich (@BigMikeR69) September 20, 2018"It's never okay to try to rape somebody not even in high school" @iamsambee pic.twitter.com/03EeqnMFzv— R.O.B. (@RAZ_1992) September 20, 2018Bee referred to several examples of lawmakers and commentators defending Kavanaugh.	Liberal
One of the favorite chants at Donald Trump rallies revolves around a claim he originally made in 2015 while speaking of what he would do as President.You remember it: Trump would lead his followers in a chant of “Build the Wall,” then ask, “And who is going to pay for it!?” to which the crowd would respond “Mexico!”Trump not only claimed he would build a wall along the almost 2,000 mile southern United States border with Mexico, which would cost billions of dollars, but he would also coerce Mexico into paying for it.In a 2015 interview, Trump said:“I will build the best wall, the biggest, the strongest, not penetrable, they wont be crawling over it, like giving it a little jump and theyre over the wall, it costs us trillions. And Ill have Mexico pay for the wall. Because Mexico is screwing us so badly.”Mexico immediately refuted Trump’s claim, but it still played well at his rallies. Each time he said something about Mexico saying “No”, Trump simply claimed his wall “just got 10 feet higher.”And even after the election, President Trump continued to claim Mexico would be paying for his wall. Once reality set in against his campaign rhetoric, he tried to find other ways to make Mexico pay for his wall.In January, Trump claimed:“There are many forms of payment. I could name 10 right now. There are many forms of payment, I didnt say how.”And when pressed, Trump responded:“They can pay for it through, as an example, they can pay for it indirectly through NAFTA. Okay? You know, we make a good deal on NAFTA, say Im going to take a small percentage of that money, and its going to go toward the wall. Guess what? Mexicos paying.”But not long after, Trump announced NAFTA was a horrible deal and stated he pulled the United States from the agreement in advance of enacting new tariffs on Mexico and Canada. But even after a new trade agreement was formed with Mexico, no provision to pay for his wall was included.Still, the President did not admit the United States taxpayers would foot the bill for his wall.Until now.On Thursday morning, Trump took to Twitter to ask where in the United States budget was the money for his border wall.I want to know, where is the money for Border Security and the WALL in this ridiculous Spending Bill, and where will it come from after the Midterms? Dems are obstructing Law Enforcement and Border Security. REPUBLICANS MUST FINALLY GET TOUGH! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 20, 2018Finally acknowledging what his opponents and critics said from the first time Trump made his claims about the wall, the President stated all funding for his wall comes from the United States budget. It is not directly or even indirectly going to be paid for by Mexico and it never was.And Twitter slammed him for it:	Liberal
During his visit to North Carolina to tour the damage caused by Hurricane Florence, President Donald Trump told one survivor that the man might get a new boat because of the storm.Trump was in New Bern, NC on Wednesday when he asked a homeowner if he owned a boat that had gotten washed up onto his porch.“Is this your boat?” Trump asked the man, who said no. A grinning Trump turned to the man and said: “At least you got a nice boat out of the deal.”Trump to a homeowner in New Bern, NC, who had a yacht wash up in his backyard: At least you got a nice boat out of the deal. pic.twitter.com/twtT3it8ul— Mark Landler (@MarkLandler) September 19, 2018The homeowner then told Trump that his insurance company is refusing to cover the damage to his home.Trump told reporters: “We’re going to find out the name of the insurance company.” Why,and for what, is unclear.“I think it’s incredible what we’re seeing,” the president said of the ruined, displaced yacht. “This boat just came here.”He continued: “They don’t know whose boat that is… what’s the law? Maybe it becomes theirs.”They dont know whose boat that is, Trump tells us, in the backyard of a house where a boat was washed ashore in flooding caused by Hurricane Florence. Whats the law? Maybe it becomes theirs. pic.twitter.com/LOQMAgDJjF— Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) September 19, 2018Twitter slammed the president for his feeble try at a joke.“His attempts at humor are horrible and inappropriate.”His attempts at humor are horrible and inappropriate— JN (@ML77) September 19, 2018Seriously! He has no empathy or understanding what these people are going through!— TMS (@Tms14wing) September 19, 2018The warmth and empathy just naturally oozes out of trump.  Surprised he didnt offer them some paper towels to clean off their new yacht.— BeMerrie (@F2FNetwork) September 19, 2018Trump didn’t seem to grasp the weight of the man’s situation.It wasnt a joke, it wasnt fake. Heres the full exchange. The man who lost everything was expressing his frustration abt his insurance claim, and all Trump cared about was a dumb boat. 20 bucks Trump didnt follow up w/the insurance info. pic.twitter.com/Hqw2DfsDIy— April (@speakout_april) September 19, 2018Trump’s lack of empathy is one of his best-known traits.@realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/RRCBhbt5Gk— Grete Thorns (@GreteThorn) September 19, 2018He is absolutely incapable of responding with empathy in any situation that requires it. He makes me ill.— KathyF (@kathylag) September 20, 2018The lack of self-awareness is astounding.— lisa (@lisadonne2) September 19, 2018As they say in the south. Lord have mercy.— R.Morton (@RMorton03906258) September 19, 2018What we really say is "Bless his heart."— RN That Thinks (@angelseeker905) September 19, 2018In the South, “bless his heart” is as bad as it gets, right? Nope.This comment has gone right past our general Southern response of "Bless his heart" to our very specific Eastern NC response of "My lord, honey."  No one wants to be the recipient of a "My lord, honey."— Kevyn Creech (@kevcreech) September 19, 2018Cuz he doesn't have one.— Teresa Bieritz (@BieritzTeresa) September 20, 2018Classic Trump being Trump.Only trump would ask that.— Tanzia Mill (@TanyaMi37632469) September 20, 2018Trump: "I think the law in North Carolina is finders keepers" pic.twitter.com/O5OkYA86AG— jimmy alto (@jimmyalto) September 19, 2018Some residents of North Carolina joked that they were still waiting for Trump to throw paper towels at them as he did in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria tore through the island a year ago.Of course, that's preposterous and insensitive. Yet me and the rest of North Carolina are left wondering:WHERE ARE OUR PAPER TOWELS?!?!We want the same kinda paper towels the Puerto Ricans got thrown to them from DJT after Maria. It's only fair.— TrueBlueRaleigh (@TrueBlueRaleigh) September 19, 2018Yeah!! Im from NC too & I want my paper towels and STILL waiting on my Soros Bucks after 3 marches!! Not fair!! Im very sad!!— Deborah (@astrogirlnc) September 20, 2018Here’s the law, by the way.18 USC 1658(a) makes it a federal crime to plunder a lost, wrecked, stranded, cast away, or distressed vessel.— A Crime a Day (@CrimeADay) September 19, 2018The president came under fire earlier in the day for another insensitive remark.	Liberal
Fox News commentator Jesse Watters, appearing on “The Five,” accused Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who alleges Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in high school, of “not being a true victim.”“I don’t want to cast any doubton her allegations,” Watters told co-host Greg Gutfeld, “but the waythey are dragging this out nowit’s become so political, Greg,that it’s gotten away from theactual alleged crime. And now it’s about the process andthe nomination of this guy.She’s not doing things– the Democrats aren’t doing thingsin a way that people would do ifshe was a true victim.”He continued:“If you go out and you say thefirst thing, you hearKavanaugh’s name, you callThe Washington Postand thenyou call your congresswoman andthen you call Dianne Feinsteinand you say you don’t want tocome forward because you want tobe anonymous but at the sametime you take a polygraph test,and when they ask you how didyou pay for the polygraph, youdon’t say how you paid for it… It’s just way, way too suspicious towhat’s going on.I wanted to believe her.I still kind of believe shebelieves something happened but itdoesn’t sit right.”Watters’ statements, which included claims that Dr. Ford’s attorneys are in cahoots with the Clinton Foundation, Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and George Soros, prompted actress Mia Farrowto point out what many have pointed out about Dr. Ford’s decision to come forwardWhy would a person who is lying about a sexual assault ask for an FBI investigation? https://t.co/Sr5wppN9sO— Mia Farrow (@MiaFarrow) September 19, 2018Others also joined Farrow in criticizing Watters’ reasoning.Like he would know what a woman who has been sexually assaulted experiences. Especially when you are going to be grilled by an all male senators with the whole world watching you.— Michael Mullin (@ziner1127) September 19, 2018Ummm. Its a @FoxNews host. Consider the source. Talk about fake news. They have #FantasyNews— Greg Silva (@gregsilva1) September 20, 2018https://twitter.com/andywalke/status/1042689128842838017Lying to the FBI is a crime, but sure let's call her a liar without an investigation.—  DiogenesTerp  (@DiogenesTerp) September 20, 2018Why would a person who is lying place a witness favourable to the attacker in the room at the time of the attack. Does not make sense. Dr Ford is telling the truth.— JPaterson (@JPaterson14) September 20, 2018Although Watters joins the chorus of Republicans, particularly Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who’ve criticized the way Democrats have handled the allegations, many have pointed out that Dr. Ford did not, from the outset, want her name to become public knowledge.In truth, Ford had sent a letter to Feinstein and anonymously tipped off theWashington Postback in July, but had requested that her identity remain a secret, citing fears of what publicity might mean for her and her family amid the task of having to rehash the assault in the public eye. Feinstein chose to honor Fords request for anonymity. Ford only came forward afterThe Interceptreportedthat Feinstein had a letterdescribing an incident involving Kavanaugh and a woman while they were in high school in her possession and was refusing to share it with her colleagues.Attorneys for Dr. Fordare insisting that the FBI should investigate her allegation despite pushback from Republicans critics say are eager to confirm Kavanaugh to the nations highest court. Republicans have claimed that to initiate an investigation would significantly delay a vote which has already been postponed. This reasoning has already been shown to be faulty: The FBI investigation of Anita Hills allegations that Justice Clarence Thomas sexually harassed her when he was her supervisor at theUnited States Department of Educationand theEqual Employment Opportunity Commission only took three days.	Liberal
While seated with Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and Federal Emergency Management Agency head Brock Long, President Donald Trump received briefings from local, state and federal disaster recovery officials in a hangar at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point in Havelock, North Carolina.The group convened to discuss the devastation caused by Hurricane Florence. 37 people died as a result of the storm, 27 of those from North Carolina.An official from Duke Energy spoke about their efforts to restore utility service to their customers. When she finished, Trump asked her one question that caused a few chuckles among those in attendance, but outrage from others.In front of news cameras filming the status briefing, Trump asked:“How is Lake Norman doing? I love that area. I cant tell you why, but I love that area.”Watch the video here.President Trump loves Lake Norman but he can’t tell you why. #LKN @WCNC pic.twitter.com/ONVuh1piGK Evan West  WCNC  (@TV_Evan) September 19, 2018The worst of the storm tore across the coastline of North and South Carolina on Thursday into Friday.Hurricane Florence made it to the Charlotte, North Carolina, area over the weekend as a tropical depression with wind speeds around 35 mph.While Duke Energy reported about 12,300 homes without power in the Charlotte area on Monday morning, that did not compare to the 630,000 homes they reported along the coast. Lake Norman sits north of Charlotte. While low lying areas flooded due to heavy rains, the most devastating impact of the storm fell miles away along the coastline.So why ask an energy official about a much less devastated area instead of asking about restoring power to those most affected?Pres asks @DukeEnergy official about Lake Norman area of NC. “I love that area. I cant tell you why, but I love that area. He doesn’t mention that he’s got a Trump National Golf Club on the shores of Lake Norman. He’s told it’s doing good. pic.twitter.com/WsKv14kuNA Mark Knoller (@markknoller) September 19, 2018President Trump owns a golf course on the shores of Lake Norman. A power outage would cost the Trump Organization in lost revenue.This is not the first time the President drew criticism for thinking of himself in times of crisis. After the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, Trump brought up the winery he owns there.When reporters asked about the volatile situation in Charlottesvillethat resulted in the murder of Heather Heyer and injuries to 19 others when a white supremacist drove his car into a crowd of counter protestersTrump stated:“I own a house in Charlottesville. Does anyone know I own a house in Charlottesville? Oh boy, it’s gonna be…it’s in Charlottesville.”“It is the winery. I mean, I know a lot about Charlottesville. Charlottesville is a great place that’s been very badly hurt over the last couple of days.”“I own actually one of the largest wineries in the United States, it’s in Charlottesville.”At the time, people accused the President of being more concerned about his winery than Heather Heyer’s murder or the racism displayed in Charlottesville. Now, people accused Trump of showing more concern for one of his golf courses than the people of North Carolina.But it could be something else entirely.	Liberal
Attorneys for Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, a Stanford University professor who alleges Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in high school, are insisting that the FBI should investigate her allegation despite pushback from Republicans critics say are eager to confirm Kavanaugh to the nation’s highest court. Republicans have claimed that to initiate an investigation would significantly delay a vote which has already been postponed.But a CNN timeline shows that in 1991 an FBI investigation of Anita Hill’s allegations that Justice Clarence Thomas sexually harassed her when he was her supervisor at theUnited States Department of Educationand theEqual Employment Opportunity Commission only took three days.Here’s the breakdown:In July 1991, then-President George H.W. Bush nominated Clarence Thomas, then a federal appeals court judge, to succeed Justice Thurgood Marshall.On September 3, 1991, Hill was approachedby the Senate Judiciary Committee and asked to provide background information on him because the two of them had worked together. A written statement from Hill, then a tenured law professor at the University of Oklahoma Law Center, sent to news organizations noted that Hill decided to submit an affidavit after “numerous discussions” with the Judiciary Committee’s staff.Thomas’s initial hearing before the Judiciary Committee began onSeptember 10, 1991. Two days later, according to the recollection of Joe Biden, who was then the head of the committee, Hill first told the committee that Thomas had harassed her. Hill had requested anonymity and that Thomas not be told of the accusations.Eight days later, onSeptember 20, 1991,“an FBI investigation was suggested” to Hill.“I spoke with the Judiciary Committee about it early in September, and through a number of discussions, it was not until the 20th of September that an F.B.I. investigation was suggested to me,” Hill said during a news conference the following month, adding, “There was a further breakdown even after that, what information would be shared. So there are a number of different points at which the communication broke down, understandings were not carried through.”During the conference, Hill criticized the way the Judiciary Committee handled the allegations against Thomassaying she had tried for nearly two weeks in September to put a confidential account of her allegations before the committee’s 14 male members. At the time, theNew York Times observed that Hill’s account “differed markedly from the accounts offered” by the White House and Biden, “who said Ms. Hill’s demand that her statements be kept confidential had impeded the committee.”On September 23, 1991, according to a statement from Biden reported in theTimes, Hill agreed to allow the FBI to investigate the allegations. Judy Smith, who was then the White House Press Secretary, said in a statement published October 6 inNewsday that Hill’s allegations were brought to the attention of the Judiciary Committee on September 23, which differs from Hill’s own account. The committee, Smith continued, then informed the White House, whichthen “promptly directed the FBI to conduct a full, thorough and expeditious investigation.”The FBI completed its investigation onSeptember 26, 1991three days later. According to Smith’s statement, the White House reviewed the FBI’s findings “and determined that the allegation was unfounded.”The following day, the committee deadlocked 7-7 on whether to recommend the Senate confirm Thomas. Then the committee voted 13-1 to send Thomas’s nomination to the Senate floor without a recommendation.The public first heard of Anita Hill’s allegations onOctober 6, 1991,when NPR’sNina Totenberg obtained a copy of the FBI report and reported on them.On October 11, 1991, Hill testified that Thomas harassed her while she was in his employ. Thomas denied that he had ever asked Hill out on dates or asked Hill to describe her sexual interests. There were four female witnesses waiting in the wings to support Hill’s credibility, but they were not called.TheLos Angeles Times described the decision not to call the women “a private agreement that kept the woman off national television” and that the compromise “meant that Angela Wright, who had been fired by Thomas at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, did not provide the testimony” that Hill’s supporters had “deemed crucial to buttressing her credibility.”Hill’s testimony was in vain. Four days later, onOctober 15, 1991, the Senate confirmed Thomas in a 52-48 vote. This was the narrowest margin since the 19th century. He was sworn in as an associate justice of the Supreme Court the following week.Hill herself has found herself center stage once more now that the allegations against Kavanaugh threaten to usher in a repeat of recent history.The American public really is expecting something more, she said in an interview on ABCs Good Morning America.We are really under the impression that the Senate doesnt take this seriously and doesnt see this as part of their core responsibility,” she added.EXCLUSIVE: Anita Hill advises Senate to push the pause button on Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh after sexual assault allegation. https://t.co/mzz6iKmo6Z pic.twitter.com/PuSg2tErD0— ABC News (@ABC) September 19, 2018All of this is really something that I dont think can be avoided if you really want to get to the truth, if thats the purpose of this hearing, Hill said, further noting thathistory could repeat itself with Kavanaugh and Blasey, whether or not it is going to be anything more than just a sham proceeding so that the senators can say, We gave her a chance to talk, and then move on to doing exactly what they were intending to do before she came forward.”	Liberal
Comedian John Oliver  host of HBOs Last Week Tonight  is public enemy number one in China due to how he skewers the political elite of this communist country. Not only is his show banned in the worlds most populous country, but he is, too.(Oliver was banned for the following segment, by the way.)Government censorship has always been alive and well in China, but a significant crackdown in 2018 means that Oliver will have a lot of company. Chinese authorities are now scouring online broadcasting platforms for 10 categories of violations of mainstream values. In effect, the government is trying to eradicate many of the behaviors now embraced by members of the countrys burgeoning middle class, and going after the many online services spreading the word.A recently discovered unpublished document called Management requirements for live service information and content shows that China is censoring content in an effort to dampen online sources of creativity, personal expression, and political criticism. The list of contraband behaviors is long and laughable. Chinese citizens streaming a wide variety of activities  everything from visiting tattoos parlors to proselytizing religion to suggestive dancing to seductive use of voice acting to inflame passions  is now considered taboo. As The Globe and Mail reports, the document offers a ringside seat to the governments paranoia and insecurities, said William Nee, China researcher for Amnesty International.The edicts specificity is revealing  it shows what exactly they are worried about, said Yaxue Cao, the founder and editor of ChinaChange.org, which publishes news and commentary related to Chinese civil society and human rights.It targets political dissent of course, but any activities that might cause a large number of people to coalesce, whether through popular entertainment such as Duanzi (jokes) and cartoons, or through direct sales network, she said, in an email. It also aims at content that might give people ideas of resistance and how-to knowledge. I go through each category, this is the theme I see: a heightened sense of regime insecurity.	Liberal
Back in March, President Donald Trump took a trip to Otay Mesa near San Diego to look at various prototypes for his border wall. A sample section of eight options were built on the site at the cost of$300,000-$500,000 eachwith the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) paying the $2.4 million-$4 million bill.Back in September 2017, DHS awarded eight contractsto companies to develop prototypes for the Trump administrations proposed wall along the nearly 2,000 mile US-Mexico border. Contracts were split evenly into concrete and non-concrete walls.Eight prototypesused as a visual aid for President Trump’s visit to Otay Mesaremain untouched on site. Vice President Mike Pence also reviewed the prototypes during a separate visit.If possible, DHS could eventually incorporate some or all of these display models in the finished border wall infrastructure. For now, the multi-million dollar project acts as the banner photo for the Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) website.In addition to the Otay Mesa set of prototypes, contractors built eight duplicates at an undisclosed location so DHS could conduct testing of the walls for: breaching, climbing, digging, stability and other safety protocols according to the original plans. DHS paid another $2.4 million-$4 million for those as well.The next phase beganwith teams fromCBP and the US military’s Special Operations Command and members of the U.S. Marine Corps. That step did not go so well according to a heavily redacted report released by CBP.Teams breached prototypes 13 times. Test crews made one prototype wall completely “unstable” to the point of collapse.A representative for CBP statedin defense of the prototypes failing gradethat specialized equipment and planning went into the successful breaches. ButAndrea Guerrero of Alliance San Diego, a non-profit supporting social equality and immigrants, stated:“It’s troubling because this wall is a wasteful wall, a harmful wall and an irresponsible wall. The report confirms what we’ve always believed: that this is a bad idea.”The tactical teams tried to breach, scale or otherwise penetrate the walls in a real-life scenario. However the report makes no mention of tunneling or digging tests despite original plans and the documented frequency of this method in real life situations.In a CBP statement issued Monday, they clarified:“As is the case with any barrier, the eight border wall prototypes were not and cannot be designed to be indestructible. Rather, this capability enables Border Patrol to impede or deny efforts to scale, breach, or dig under such a barrier, giving agents time to respond.”CBP did not include any information on how the multi-billion dollar proposed wall improves over the walls already along the southern border that also enable Border Patrol to impede or deny efforts to scale, breach, or dig under such a barrier, giving agents time to respond.The project already at $20 million for just the prototypes requires significant improvementsbefore any final decisions or construction plan implementation. But with all prototypes failing the “impenetrable” test, some may need to be scrapped completely.But how much will that cost?A General Accounting Office (GAO) report released this summer warned of underestimated costs for the proposed border wall. Prototypes in Otay Mesa stand on flat ground, but the 2,000 mile border covers a great variety of topography.CBP union spokesman Joshua Wilson said:“The wall is never going to be all end all, but what it is able to do is it able to slow down illegal traffic crossing the border and gives the border patrol not only a safer environment to work in, but it also allows us time to identify and interdict that traffic and deploy appropriate resources to deal with it.”“What I think we’ll see is a hybrid of several different designs taking the best features of each.”But the trial and error is coming at taxpayer expense, which is unusual in and of itself.	Liberal
President Donald Trump, in a couple of tweets earlier today, quoted Fox News contributor Peter Ferrara, who, in an appearance on “Fox and Friends”the president’s show of choiceclaimed that the nation’s economic recovery “got started on Election Day 2016.” Ferrara,an attorney and policy analyst, credited Trump’s “tax cuts and regulation cuts” for the healthy economy.The recovery got started on Election Day 2016. It took Trumps Tax Cuts and Regulation Cuts to get the economy booming. Before that it was the worst and slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression. It took just 6 months for Trump to get to 3%, even though they said…..— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 19, 2018….it was impossible – and then already its over 4%, and I expect its going to grow faster and faster. Were just getting started here. Peter Ferrara, former advisor to President Reagan. @foxandfriends— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 19, 2018This claim was quickly shown to be incorrect. Digital strategistJohn Aravosis pointed out that economy actually grew faster under Trump’s predecessor.Lie. The economy grew faster under Obama (it hit 3% growth 12 times under O), and the stock market tripled under Obama. Also unemployment plummeted. Think of how bad a job Trump has done if he has to lie about his greatest hits. https://t.co/LQHJkmljsD pic.twitter.com/fFs5SW9kJc— John Aravosis  (@aravosis) September 19, 2018In fact, economists agree former President Barack Obama essentially handed Trump a thriving economy, a fact many won’t let Trumpwho hasoften taken credit for Obama’s successessforget.It was Aaron Sojourner,a labor economist and associate professor at the University of Minnesota’s Carlson School of Management, who provided the most succinct counters to the president’s claim.Sojourner debunked Trump’s claim, using data on everything from jobs…Check out the trend in the # of JOBS JOBS JOBS (graph). Can you see when the recovery really got started? pic.twitter.com/cKjA1Sh13P— Aaron Sojourner (@aaronsojourner) September 19, 2018…to unemployment rates…Check out the trend in unemployment rates (graph). Can you see when the recovery really got started? pic.twitter.com/Af777Cokym— Aaron Sojourner (@aaronsojourner) September 19, 2018…to job openings…Check out the trend in the # of job openings (graph). Can you see when the recovery really got started? pic.twitter.com/3TI0dNMJbr— Aaron Sojourner (@aaronsojourner) September 19, 2018…to the number of initial jobless claims…Check out the trend in the initial jobless claims (graph). Can you see when the recovery really got started? pic.twitter.com/QLnotOH5vj— Aaron Sojourner (@aaronsojourner) September 19, 2018…to the trend in the U.S. gross domestic product…Check out the trend in the GDP (graph). Can you see when the recovery really got started? pic.twitter.com/6rWmMQaDLz— Aaron Sojourner (@aaronsojourner) September 19, 2018…and even real median household income.Check out the trend in real median household income (graph). Can you see when the recovery really got started? pic.twitter.com/gEygysp0aM— Aaron Sojourner (@aaronsojourner) September 19, 2018This is far from the first time Trumpand the White Househas attempted to obfuscate Obama’s legacy.Last month, in a tweettouting U.S. job growth underTrump, the White House accidentally put the strength of the economy into its proper context by amplifying a graph showing 94 months of consecutive job growth, going back to 2011.When Barack Obama was president.Since President @realDonaldTrump was elected, there's been outstanding job growth in construction, manufacturing, mining, logging, and other American industries. See the numbers from the longest monthly job growth streak in U.S. history: https://t.co/H5mop38ygO— The White House (@WhiteHouse) August 7, 2018	Liberal
An increasing number of Americans say they do not support Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation, according to the latestReuters/Ipsos poll, which was conducted in the wake of a sexual assault allegation which threatens to upend Kavanaugh’s chances of taking a seat on the nation’s highest court.The poll, which was conducted between September 11 and September 17,found that36 percentof adults surveyed did not want Kavanaugh in the Supreme Court. That number is six points higher than the results of a similar poll conducted last month. Only 31 percent of those surveyed say they support Kavanaugh’s appointment to the Supreme Court.More women oppose Kavanaugh’s confirmation than a month earlier: That’s 33 percent, a seven-point jump.It was already a no but now its a stronger no, said 29-year-old Bonnie Mann when asked about whether her view of Kavanaughs nomination had changed since the allegation.Support for Kavanaugh was, however, higher among Republicans, with 64 percentfewer than two out of threesaying they support his nomination.A similar poll from Gallup noted that support for Kavanaugh had been rising before Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, a Stanford University professor, identified herself as the anonymous author of a letter sent to Senator Dianne Feinstein, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which alleged Kavanaugh had assaulted her at a high school party in the early 1980s.39 percent of Americans said they “favored his confirmation” to the Supreme Court and 42 percent “were opposed,” according to Gallup, which notes that:Opinions about Kavanaugh’s confirmation have been the most politically polarized to date, with an average 60-point gap in the percentage of Republicans (75%) and Democrats (15%) who want him to be confirmed.The already low support for Kavanaugh among Democrats could be one reason the sexual assault allegations have not yet affected the opinion of his confirmation. His 37% support among independents is also on the low end of past measurements for that group, although there is still room for that to decline. Kavanaugh’s 75% support among Republicans is right in line with what the president’s co-partisans have given prior nominees.Dr. Ford’s allegations have “undoubtedly imperiled Kavanaugh’s nomination. The public had not been overly enthusiastic about his nomination from the beginning, although until now that might have had as much to do withTrump’s unpopularityand increased political polarization as with Kavanaugh himself,” Gallup’s report reads.A July poll from the Pew Research Center also provides an equallydim view of Kavanaugh’s prospects, finding that only 41 percent of Americans believe Kavanaugh should be confirmed, while 36 percent say he should not be.That’s “a lower net level of support for any nominee” since the nomination of Harriet Miers in 2005, which then-President George W. Bush was forced to withdraw amid bipartisan opposition. Miers’s “confirmation was backed by 33 percent and opposed by 27 percent of Americans,” Pew said.The aforementioned Gallup poll also notes this gap:Most prior nominees werewell-regarded by the publicwhen first announced, so any increase in opposition later in the process still left Americans solidly behind their confirmation. Because opinions about Kavanaugh’s confirmation were divided from the start, the fairly modest shift in opinion since July has been enough to make him just the second nominee who ever had opposition that exceeded support.Harriet Miers is the other prior high-court nominee who did not have greater support than opposition. Just before her October 2005 nomination was withdrawn amid increasing questions about her qualifications, 42% of Americans favored the Senate confirmation of Miers and 43% were opposed. That compared with a 44% to 36% gap in favor of her confirmation just after George W. Bush chose her.Concerns over Kavanaugh’s fitness to serve on the Supreme Court have only intensified in the last 24 hours, particularly in light of the news that Republicans will hold a public hearing into the sexual assault accusation with only Kavanaugh and Dr. Ford present. Democrats have cried foul, saying they need to hear from a Kavanaugh classmate who Ford said was present during the attack and that the FBI needs to reopen its background check of Kavanaugh to investigate Fords allegation and interview possible witnesses.Prominent voices have also joined the call for a more thorough FBI investigation. Many believe the need for an investigation is only more imperative now that Dr. Ford has been forced out of her home after receiving death threats over the allegation.The FBI clearly has jurisdiction, without any referral from the WH, to investigate the death threats, the hacking, and the harassment designed to prevent the alleged victim from appearing to testify before the US Senate. That would lead to investigating the alleged arrack itself— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) September 19, 2018The FBI reopened the 1961 bombing at 16th Baptist Church in Birmingham – the coldest of cold cases – in 1997 & convicted 2 defendants by interviewing witnesses & uncovering new evidence. Dont tell me they can complete a background regarding Judge Kavanaughs high school conduct.— Joyce Alene (@JoyceWhiteVance) September 19, 2018In 1991, Senate Republicans said an FBI investigation was the the very right thing to do  but now, those same Republicans insist the FBI cannot investigate whether Judge Kavanaugh committed sexual assault. Why? pic.twitter.com/75dk6GCZMH— Senate Democrats (@SenateDems) September 19, 2018Any surprise she wants FBI to investigate so it does not become he said or she said.  As for Kavanaugh supporters, your behavior is despicable.  I saw this first hand over a handshake.  I can only imagine the harassment the professor is dealing with.https://t.co/UZs6QlOvol— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 19, 2018Hillary Clinton, in an interview with MSNBC, also echoed the call for an investigation, saying that the White House could, quite easily, order the FBI to reopen their background check into Kavanaugh.“So far, they [the White House] haven’t done that,” Clinton said.During an interview with @maddow, @hillaryclinton said the White House could act very quickly to the request to have the FBI reopen their Kavanaugh review: So far, they havent done that.Watch the full interview here: https://t.co/ryDJQ5PVbn pic.twitter.com/c51SQW43ph— MSNBC (@MSNBC) September 19, 2018	Liberal
In a twist completely apropos for 2018, Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, has received a patent for a medication designed to treat opioid addiction. Purdue Pharma is largely considered to be responsible for the current opioid epidemic.The patent is not for an entirely new medication; rather, it is for a new and fast-acting form of an existing medication: buprenorphine. One popular form of buprenorphine is sold under the name Suboxone. The medication acts as an opioid replacement. It works by controlling drug cravings and is used as an alternative for individuals hooked on painkillers or heroin. The current method of transmission for buprenorphine is a sublingual strip or tablet that dissolves under the tongue  something that can take up to 15 minutes to dissolve. The new form would be given in wafer form, dissolving in just a matter of seconds.“While opioids have always been known to be useful in pain treatment, they also display an addictive potential. Thus, if opioids are taken by healthy human subjects with a drug-seeking behaviour they may lead to psychological as well as physical dependence, the patent states.OxyContin was originally created in 1995 by Purdue Pharma, and heavily marketed as a miracle painkiller. The marketing campaign was aggressive and eventually led to OxyContin becoming the most widely prescribed opioid medication. Even though sales have declined in recent years, the company still grossed over $2 billion in sales from the medication.In recent years, Purdue Pharma has been associated with numerous lawsuits related to the opioid epidemic. The Sackler family, which controls Purdue, was personally named in one of the lawsuits this past June. The Massachusetts Attorney General accused the family of a deadly, deceptive scheme to sell opioids.For the most part, Purdue Pharma denies any culpability and deceptive practices. In a statement to CBS News, the company stated that all of their practices have been above board. “Purdue is confident that its past marketing and sales of its prescription opioid medications have been consistent with the information contained in the FDA-approved label as the agency oversees the risks and benefits of prescription medications. Additionally, FDA has, and continues to, rigorously assess the science and medical practice around the appropriate treatment of chronic pain, while simultaneously working hard to ensure that our society suffers less from the scourges of prescription opioid abuse and addiction. Purdue is committed to working collaboratively with all those impacted by this public health crisis to help stem the tide of opioid-related deaths and addiction.”	Liberal
The Texas Senate race between incumbent Ted Cruz (R) and his challenger, Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D), is a nailbiter. A new Reuters/Ipsos/UVA Center for Politics Poll released on Wednesday shows that Democrats may very well be in their way toward capturing an elusive Senate seat in deep red Texas.Tightening Texas race boosts Democrats' hopes of taking Senate: Reuters poll https://t.co/0t9fwLvfjy pic.twitter.com/csUaUHbk4D— Reuters Politics (@ReutersPolitics) September 19, 2018While most polls have shown Cruz up by single digits over O’Rourke, this new Reuters/Ipsos poll gives O’Rourke a two-point edge over Cruz, 47-45 percent among likely Texas voters. O’Rourke could become the first Democrat to win a statewide race in the Lonestar State in nearly three decades.Reuters reported that its poll“showed Hispanic voters preferring ORourke by about a 2-to-1 margin over Cruz, who is of Cuban heritage.”Beto +2 in new likely voters poll from Reuters; https://t.co/kFjgocoMPy— Eric Boehlert (@EricBoehlert) September 19, 2018O’Rourke launched his first Spanish television ads on Tuesday in hopes to spur Hispanic voter turnout, which is crucial to a Democratic victory this year and essential if Democrats hope to retake the Senate and turn Texas blue in future presidential elections.“Theres a possibility it could happen,” Larry Sabato, director of the UVA Center for Politics, said of a possible O’Rourke victory. “Im not saying probable. But its possible.”Sabato added that Cruz’s feuds with Donald Trump in the2016 presidential race “damaged him with parts of the Texas electorate that he needs for re-election.BREAKING: Rep. Beto O'Rourke is Leading Ted Cruz by 2 points according to a poll by Reuters/Ipsos/UVA Center for Politics THIS IS BIG. Beto O'Rourke Could Win This while running as a ProgressiveTHIS IS JUST AWESOME— PoliticsVideoChannel (@politvidchannel) September 19, 2018The Texas Senate poll was one of several released by Reuters/Ipsos on Wednesday, not all of which had good news for Democrats, who need to run the table if they’re going to win back the Senate in November.While it had O’Rourke slightly up, two other Democratic Senate hopefuls — incumbent Bill Nelson in Florida and Jacky Rosen in Nevada — were slightly down in their Senate races. And the Democratic nominee for Governor of Texas, Lupe Valdez, was faring even worse, down 9 points against Text Governor Rick Abbott. Which makes it all the more impressive that this poll shows such strength for O’Rourke in the Republican stronghold.Of course, that is just one poll. Just yesterday, in fact, aQuinnipiac pollwas released showing Cruz with a nine-point lead over O’Rourke.Twitter is reminding people that no matter what the polls say, everyone must vote.Dont worry about polls…..get out and VOTE!— MiKAel (@JustAGrummp2) September 19, 2018 pic.twitter.com/QFwKcuqxMZ— Breath-Tester (@BreathTester) September 19, 2018	Liberal
In a freewheeling interview with Hill.Tv, President Donald Trump said that his recent order to declassify certain documents related to the FBI’s investigation of possible conspiracy with Russia to influence the 2016 elections may be the “crowning achievement” of his presidency.The documents include text messages from former FBI director James Comey and pages of surveillance documents targeting the president’s former campaign manager Carter Page.John Solomon Interviews Pres Trump: Trump says exposing corrupt FBI probe could be crowning achievement of presidency https://t.co/7jCMGm64w8 pic.twitter.com/BkrGdVjeYI— Red Nation Rising (@RedNationRising) September 19, 2018The president said:I hope to be able put this up as one of my crowning achievements that I was able to … expose something that is truly a cancer in our country.The move has been met with heavy criticism, with many Democrats seeing it as an effort to manipulate the public’s opinion of the FBI and its investigation into his campaign.The risks have rendered the “crowning achievement” remark laughable and foreboding at the same time.Trump calls his FBI attacks his "crowning achievement". He knows he's guilty as hell, so he creates an alternate reality where he's the hero. His behavior resembles psychosis w/ paranoia & delusions of grandeur. He's a criminal w/ dementia. A large portion of his brain is gone.— Tom Joseph (@TomJChicago) September 19, 2018the crowning achievement of Trump's presidency will be when he becomes the first chief executive to be led out of the White House in handcuffs— Jeff Tiedrich (@itsJeffTiedrich) September 19, 2018@realDonaldTrump No, getting you out of office will be a crowning achievement.  It's worth mentioning that you don't want to make an enemy out of our intelligence and investigative services.  It's a fight you're likely going to lose.  Badly.— B McNeal (@Briankmcneal) September 19, 2018Most people say that the day Donald Trump finally speaks the truth about something will be the "crowning achievement" of his presidency.— NS Dave (@dave1oakns) September 19, 2018Others are noting that the decision could put other investigations, sources, and FBI tactics at risk of exposure.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s first stop on his European tour last year was Poland. Now, Polish PresidentAndrzej Duda returned the gesture with a trip to Washington DC.Things seemingly went well for the two. Duda proposed a permanent US military installation in Polandnamed Fort Trumpand Trump vowed to consider the offer for strategic and financial reasons. As with most visits by foreign dignitaries, the official White House photographer took many photos.To commemorate the visit of President Duda and First LadyAgata Kornhauser-Duda, Trump posted a selection of those pictures on Twitter. He captioned the Tuesday afternoon post:“Today, it was my great honor to welcome [Polish President] Andrzej Duda of Poland to the [White House]!”Today, it was my great honor to welcome @prezydentpl Andrzej Duda of Poland to the @WhiteHouse! pic.twitter.com/VdsTYdq9MN Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 18, 2018The photos chosen show a variety of activities the two leaders engaged in, such as a joint press conference, meetings with Trump’s administration and a symbolic signing behind the Oval Office’s famed Resolute Desk. But one photo created backlash for Presidents Duda and Trump back in Poland.This is the photo.At the end of their Oval Office meeting, the two Presidents signed a symbolic pact vowing to boost defense, energy, trade and security ties between their nations.By Wednesday morning, the story of the photo appeared across Poland on every major news site.The issue?It is all in the positioning. Trump appears to scowl at the camera as he sits in his chair at the center of the desk. Duda must stand at the corner and bend over to make his signature, but still smiles for the camera.Polish radio correspondent Pawel Zuchowski posted on Twitter:“Its nice of President Trump that he moved a bit, because otherwise our president would have had to sign the document on his knees.”Mio ze strony prezydenta Trumpa, e si troch przesun, bo nasz prezydent musiaby dokument podpisa na kolanie. Straszna enada ze strony Biaego Domu. Nie sdziem, e tak mona potraktowa gocia w Biaym Domu, gdzie wszystko wydaje si by dopracowane. @RMF24pl pic.twitter.com/FDEziZmCmP Pawe uchowski (@p_zuchowski) September 19, 2018Polish newspapers went to scholars in diplomacy for their take on the photo. International diplomacy expert Janusz Sibora called it an “offense.” He stated:“The message is clear: Americans do not respect Poles. If we sign such an important document in that way, we should ask ourselves whether this wasnt detrimental to the honor of Poland.”Poles made comparisons with other signings with world leaders, such as Trump with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.President @realDonaldTrump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on Tuesday signed a comprehensive document after a series of meetings in Singapore where the U.S. pushed for Pyongyangs nuclear disarmament. https://t.co/DcyiETW4s3 pic.twitter.com/LeMXu8r1Ox Fox News (@FoxNews) June 12, 2018Photos of that event showed the two men seated equally at one table, not one seated center of his own desk while the other hovered at the edge.However, there may be extenuating circumstances.	Liberal
Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) thinks Christine Blasey Ford’s request for an FBI investigation into her attempted rape accusations against Brett Kavanaugh “is not about finding the truth.”Graham tweeted on Wednesday morning that Ford, and the Democrats, are simply trying to “delay the process” of confirming Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.“Requiring an FBI investigation of a 36-year-old allegation (without specific references to time or location) before Professor Ford will appear before the Judiciary Committee is not about finding the truth, but delaying the process till after the midterm elections.”Requiring an FBI investigation of a 36 year old allegation (without specific references to time or location) before Professor Ford will appear before the Judiciary Committee is not about finding the truth, but delaying the process till after the midterm elections.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 19, 2018Graham added that “it is imperative” that the Senate Judiciary Committee “move forward on the Kavanaugh nomination and a committee vote be taken ASAP.”It is imperative the Judiciary committee move forward on the Kavanaugh nomination and a committee vote be taken ASAP.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 19, 2018In a letter written to Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Ford alleges that Kavanaugh drunkenly tried to rape her at a high school party in the 1980’s.According to the account, Kavanaugh was stumbling drunk and pinned Ford down on a bed, covering her mouth as he forced himself on top of her.Kavanaugh has denied the allegations.MSNBC host and former Congressman Joe Scarborough had some questions for Graham. Scarborough wants to know why a vote on Kavanaugh needs to be jammed through the Senate.He reminded Graham that it was he and other Senate Republicans who refused to give Merrick Garland a hearing after he was nominated to the High Court by President Barack Obama in 2016 – an election year.“What makes an expedited vote imperative after what Republicans did to Merrick Garland for almost 300 days?” Scarborough asked. The Supreme Court “is a lifetime appointment. Waiting a week or two for the facts to shake out seems reasonable.”For a lifetime appointment?What makes an expedited vote imperative after what Republicans did to Merrick Garland for almost 300 days? It is a lifetime appointment. Waiting a week or two for the facts to shake out seems reasonable. https://t.co/W9wLxxe3kb— Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) September 19, 2018Like Scarborough, the American people are not willing to forget about what happened to Garland, which makes Graham’s rush to confirm Kavanaugh look even more suspicious.“What’s your hurry?”Remind me how many days we were waiting for Merrick Garland to get his opportunity? Im glad Im back to not liking you again. It was getting weird there.— KT Shedden (@kshed) September 19, 2018Whats your hurry @LindseyGrahamSC? We waited a year for Scalias vacancy to be filled.— Kay Clay (@kaclasen) September 19, 2018Remind me how many days we were waiting for Merrick Garland to get his opportunity? Im glad Im back to not liking you again. It was getting weird there.— KT Shedden (@kshed) September 19, 2018Merrick Garland.You dont get to lecture anyone about SCOTUS ever again. Your words are worthless.— Alex Wild (@Myrmecos) September 19, 2018Help me understand how you didn't delay the process to replace Justice Scalia until after the 2016 elections.— Scott Philips (@ScottCPhilips) September 19, 2018Merrick Garland, sweetie. #MerrickGarland— Dame Patsy Stone (@DamePatsyStone) September 19, 2018Scalia's seat sat empty for 427 days. We can leave Kennedy's chair vacant a bit longer.— Ben Kamens (@BeeKamens) September 19, 2018@LindseyGrahamSC is complicit. What is so imperative? #MerrickGarland— Amy Niendorf (@amynien) September 19, 2018No its not Lindsey. Just ask Merrick Garland.— Brenda Cumby McGee (@dennyduper) September 19, 2018Lets wait and examine all the information. Release the documents Trump held back. The rush to confirm looks suspicious in light of Merrick Garland.#NoKavanaughVote— laurie vankleeck (@grandmalaurie) September 19, 2018@LindseyGrahamSC is complicit. What is so imperative? #MerrickGarland— Amy Niendorf (@amynien) September 19, 2018The hypocrisy is glaring.Republicans: We haven't held hearings for a Supreme Court nomination in an election year since 1938, so we won't hold one for Merrick Garland. The people deserve to vote on it.Also Republicans: We won't hear this attempted rape allegation, because the people will vote on it.— Monty Boa (@MontyBoa99) September 19, 2018Remind me how many days we were waiting for Merrick Garland to get his opportunity? Im glad Im back to not liking you again. It was getting weird there.— KT Shedden (@kshed) September 19, 2018It's about your sham hearings and complete lack of transparency.Why are a vast majority of documents being withheld?Where did the money to pay off the 200 grand in "baseball tickets" come from?— Grove Street (@Grove_Street2x) September 19, 2018Ironically, Senator – aren't YOU trying to SHOVE this SCOTUS choice down America's throat before the mid-terms in order to OBSTRUCT JUSTICE?What's your Rus(sia), Senator?— A L Katz (@boyndog) September 19, 2018Can the next Democratic President nominate Merrick Garland again??!…..It seems that grossly unfair wrong should be righted somehow.— C. Tate (@luverfash200) September 19, 2018MERRICK GARLAND— Jaclyn von Bleicken (@bleicken_von) September 19, 2018Ford has requested an FBI investigation ahead of a hearing scheduled for next Monday, which many see as adding credibility to her claims.	Liberal
The United States is the largest operator of military bases outside their own borders,with 38 “named bases” or permanent installations. After the end of the cold war, locations for United States military bases opened up in once communist controlled countries.One such country was Poland. NATO opened theJoint Force Training Centre (JFTC) in Bydgoszcz, Poland, in 2004. During the Iraq Warwhen Germany did not join United States forcesthe Department of Defense looked at moving some military installations out of Germany and into Poland.When he first took office, President Trump’s first official visit was to Poland. Now Polish PresidentAndrzej Duda is visiting Washington DC.The Polish President came with a proposal for President Trump. Polandwho suffered invasions by their neighbors throughout their historywould like the US to create a permanent military presence in Poland.And the perfect name for the base? Fort Trump, of course. The two leaders spoke of the proposal in the Oval Office in front of the press before having a joint formal press conference. President Duda referred to the proposed base as Fort Trump then as well.But when President Duda makes the same announcement during the news conference, people are not quite sure what to make of Trump’s facial expressions.Watch the moment on video here.Polands president working trump by asking for more troops and equipment in exchange for calling a large American military base there Fort Trump. pic.twitter.com/wCnLxOZiE6 ALT- Immigration ?? (@ALT_uscis) September 18, 2018The US President always gives a rather animated facial display when he is listening to others speak. In this case, people can see the moment the translation catches up, when Trump’s facial expression changes from listening……to a reaction some interpret as him being opposed to the name, but……immediately after, his face takes on an expression that some say means he is actively considering the idea and like the suggestion of Fort Trump.The US President stated he is considering the proposed base, but did not directly address the name. Poland’s President pledged to pay $2 billion of the costs and name the facility “Fort Trump” during the Oval Office meeting. Duda stated:“I hope that we will build Fort Trump in Poland together, Mr. President.”Trump responded that Poland’s security is “very important” to him.During the press conference, Duda said:“I am convinced that there is no more an effective method of preventing a war than a decisive stance demonstrating that we are ready at any moment to repel possible attack.”“When we have a strong military presence in this part of Europe, where there is a potential threat, there will be no war happening ever.”While President Trump did not give a definitive answer, he said:“Poland would be paying the United States billions of dollars for a base. We are looking at that more and more from a standpoint of defending really wealthy countries and not being reimbursed.”“The President offered us much more than $2 billion to do this and so we are looking at it from the standpoint of number one military protection for both countries and also cost.”Trump criticized NATO members for not paying enough for the US military during meetings with allies.But would the United States, or Poland, be held to the name Fort Trump?	Liberal
Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s allegations of sexual assault against United States Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh have upended a confirmation that seemed all but inevitable. As is unfortunately the case when many sexual assault victims come forward, Ford is now facing extreme backlash and vilification, primarily by men.Senator and Senate Judiciary Committee member Chris Coons (D-DE) is ready to push back against that climate soon. When asked on CNN, Coons said he isprepared to yield his time to fellow Senate Judiciary Committee members Kamala Harris (D-CA) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) because of the women’s experience as prosecutors who have handled sexual assault cases. Harris previously served as California’s attorney general while Klobuchar served as attorney for Hennepin County in Minnesota.Coons’s answer comes at the 5:50 mark.The Senate Judiciary Committee hearing with Judge Kavanaugh and Dr. Ford must include testimony from experts who can discuss why many victims of sexual assault refuse to come forward for years. pic.twitter.com/g4Wb5FesXl— Senator Chris Coons (@ChrisCoons) September 18, 2018Chris Coons said on CNN that he might cede his time at Monday's hearing to Kamala Harris and Amy Klobuchar because of their prosecutorial experience: "We've got members of the committee who are far more experienced than I am in these matters."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) September 18, 2018Many users agreed with him, believing there was more strength in unity for Democrats.This is how you get in formation @SenateDems More please!— Midwin Charles (@MidwinCharles) September 18, 2018And it would shine a glaring spotlight on the fact that there are ZERO" women on the Republican side of the judiciary committee.— CathyO (@cathyob1) September 18, 2018TEAMWORK!!!— Tammie  (@tlccourville) September 18, 2018They especially supported deferring to Harris, whose unrelenting questioning of Kavanaugh often left the nominee visibly flustered.I'm all for that. Please do let @SenKamalaHarris take your place. @SenCoonsOffice @ChrisCoons pic.twitter.com/Sg4FPrSrX5— Debbie Owens (@Dowens8490) September 18, 2018Watching Kamala Harris questioning weasels like Kavanaugh is my favorite thing!— LA Johnson (@Lovlee8) September 18, 2018Yes! @KamalaHarris is a bulldog during questioning, an incredibly smart bulldog.— Cycle The Pacific Northwest (@Cyclethepacwest) September 18, 2018I predict that IF a number of Dems cede their time to @KamalaHarris, the corrupt @GOP will withdraw the nomination. NOTHING makes a Republican sweat more these days than the thought of our warrior princess asking them questions! Remember snivelling Sessions? lol. #GoKamala!— Mary Reed (@MaryAReed) September 18, 2018Harris and Klobuchar perfectly embodied the experience Coons described at the initial Senate Judiciary Hearing for Brett Kavanaugh earlier this month.	Liberal
President Donald Trump expressed empathy for Brett Kavanaugh on Tuesday when asked how he felt about the FBI reopening their background investigation into the Supreme Court nominee, following allegations that Kavanaugh attempted to rape a young woman while he was in high school.Pres. Trump says it "wouldn't bother me" if FBI reopened background investigation on Brett Kavanaugh but "the FBI…they really don't do that.""I feel so badly for him that he's going through this," Trump adds. "This is not a man that deserves this." https://t.co/vQzfc2BfoI pic.twitter.com/L0C00Yq3hc— ABC News (@ABC) September 18, 2018Trump, infamous for his lack of empathy, seems to have a soft spot for Kavanaugh.“I feel so badly for him that he’s going through this,” Trump said. “This is not a man that deserves this.”Trump described Kavanaugh as“an incredible individual, great intellect, great judge, impeccable history in every way.”Trump lamented that the allegations “should have been brought up long ago.”The president added: “That’s what hearings are for, you don’t waituntil the hearing is over and then all of a sudden bring it up.”It wasn’t “brought up” at Kavanaugh’s hearings because Christine Blasey Ford, his accuser, requested confidentiality when she brought the matter to the attention of her elected representatives.Trump said it“wouldn’t bother” him if the FBI followed up on the accusations but reinforced his belief that “the FBI…they really don’t do that. That’s not what they do.” Trump then countered himself, adding that the FBI has already conducted six background checks into Kavanaugh for his previous judicial appointments.It’s what the FBI does.Yes… the FBI doesnt do investigations. Its not like its right there in their naHey, wait a second…— The Ghost of Mark Felt (@jokesnottomake) September 18, 2018#tinymushroom @realDonaldTrump the #fbi will do as many background checks as you ask them. Its literally what they do.— John Galt (@1984JohnGalt) September 18, 2018Social media went into a fury against the president. People want to know why Kavanaugh’s accuser doesn’t deserve the same benefit of the doubt or empathy as Kavanaugh.What does Dr Ford deserve?— Roland Yampolsky (@RolandtrueNYC) September 18, 2018And her??? What about her. Did she deserve this?? Then, now or ever???— Lisa~A (@justlisa512) September 18, 2018No woman deserves this either, yet @realDonaldTrump let's it loose every so often.#TrumpToad pic.twitter.com/x4F2eWTili— Abner B. Ortiz (@abnerbortiz) September 18, 2018You feel bad for Brett Kavanaugh! But what about Dr. Ford! Does she not deserve the same empathy, sympathy and compassion? As the President of the United States you show everyday just how hard your heart is!— Maggie12161773 (@maggie12161773) September 18, 2018As if being almost raped was deserved?— Annette Bridley (@AnnetteBridley) September 18, 2018Trump says  repeatedlythat he feels terribly for Kavanaugh but summons no empathy for Ford, whom he refers to as the woman.— Alex Wagner (@alexwagner) September 18, 2018Trump’s own history of sexual misconduct allegations wasn’t forgotten either, so his empathy toward Kavanaugh wasn’t surprising to some.The Grifter in the Oval Office is a predator who has, time and again, demonstrated predatory behavior. Of course, hes defending an alleged predator. As if decades ago makes it okay.— JK Weston (@WestonJK) September 18, 2018Trump surely deserves to be held accountable for ALL of his sexual assaults…..— Kim Earl  Koskella (@KimKoskella) September 18, 2018Trump’s hypocrisy on criminal justice is on full display here.Stop infantalizing white men and pathologizing black ones. Kavanaugh, accused of attempted rape, was 17: Trump defending his very special guy. All of the Central Park Five, accused of rape, were YOUNGER than 17: Trump said he hated them and called for their execution.— Charles M. Blow (@CharlesMBlow) September 17, 2018Trump just established the standard of proof for Kavanaugh: There shouldnt be a doubt.So senators should vote against Kavanaugh if they have any doubt about his testimony.— Lawrence O'Donnell (@Lawrence) September 18, 2018By saying this of Kavanaugh today, "I feel so badly for him that he's going through this. This is not a man that deserves this," President Trump inches closer to the opposite of what Kellyanne Conway said a day ago: "She should not be ignored or insulted."— Jeff Zeleny (@jeffzeleny) September 18, 2018Trump also accused Democrats of obstructing Kavanaugh’s confirmation – and Twitter showed up to remind him of what happened in 2016.	Liberal
A video of Judge Brett Kavanaugh joking about his party days in high school is going viral on Twitter, providing ammunition to Democrats and progressives after allegations that Kavanaugh committed sexual assault surfaced last week.Speaking at Catholic University’s Columbus School of Law in 2015, Kavanaugh reminisced about his days at Georgetown Preparatory School, where the students held a certain mantra.We had a good saying that weve held firm to to this day as the dean was reminding me before the talk,” Kavanaugh said.“What happens at Georgetown Prep stays at Georgetown Prep.”“That’s been a good thing for all of us, I think,” the judge joked.The video prompted Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) to ask:“is this really what America wants in its next Supreme Court Justice?”Brett Kavanaugh talking about his high school in 2015: What happens at Georgetown Prep, stays at Georgetown Prep.I can't imagine any parent accepting this view. Is this really what America wants in its next Supreme Court Justice? pic.twitter.com/WhL8YeZQ78— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) September 18, 2018Last week, a confidential letter sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee accusing Kavanaugh of the attempted rape of a classmate at a high school house party in the 1980s was made public without the authors consent.At the time, Kavanaugh was 17 and attended Georgetown Prep, a prestigious private school for boys in Bethesda, Maryland. His accuser, Christine Blasey Ford, a research psychologist, was 15 and attended Holton Arms School, a private all-girls academy also located in Bethesda.The video of Kavanaugh joking about Georgetown Prep as if it were a bachelor party in Las Vegas has many on social media aghast in the wake of the explosive allegations.“This didn’t age well,” actor Emmy Rossum said.This didnt age well. https://t.co/JAx4fG7FjK— Emmy Rossum (@emmyrossum) September 18, 2018Kavanaugh: We had a good saying that weve held firm to to this day as the dean was reminding me before the talk, which is what happens at Georgetown Prep stays at Georgetown Prep. Thats been a good thing for all of us. pic.twitter.com/c1oWLzG4l9— Evan Rosenfeld (@Evan_Rosenfeld) September 18, 2018Well, this didn't age well."What happens at Georgetown Prep, stays at Georgetown Prep. That's been a good thing for all of us". — Brett Kavanaugh, 2015via @JuddLegum. Subscribe to his newsletter at https://t.co/utxsWX8fshpic.twitter.com/UuH3E6hqnJ— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) September 18, 2018"What happens at Georgetown Prep, stays at Georgetown Prep. That's been a good thing for all of us" – Brett Kavanaugh, 2015 pic.twitter.com/ziIhgRUCt9— Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) September 18, 2018Kathy Griffin: “I bet,” referring to whatever “a good thing for all of us” may mean.Judge Kavanaugh in 2015: "What happens at Georgetown prep, stays at Georgetown prep. Thats been a good thing for all of us…I bet…. pic.twitter.com/aKgUvdBKMY— Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) September 18, 2018Wow.BRETT KAVANAUGH: What happens at Georgetown Prep STAYS at Georgetown Prep.He is accused of attempted rape while at Georgetown Prep.pic.twitter.com/RvYtJFpODY— Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) September 18, 2018"What happens at Georgetown Prep, stays at Georgetown Prep. That's been a good thing for all of us" — Brett Kavanaugh, 2015 pic.twitter.com/hVfkgZ5gZn— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) September 18, 2018MSNBC just aired this footage from a speech by Judge Kavanaugh at the Columbus School of Law from 2015"What happens at Georgetown Prep, stays at Georgetown Prep. That's been a good thing for all of us" pic.twitter.com/pIOztUx7Zs— Jon Levine (@LevineJonathan) September 18, 2018Share. This. Video. Now. Please. Thanks.Kavanaugh: What happens at Georgetown prep, stays at Georgetown prep. Thats been a good thing for all of us. pic.twitter.com/fAKsYkNXmV— Scott Dworkin (@funder) September 18, 2018In 2015, Kavanaugh said that 'what happens at Georgetown Prep, stays at Georgetown prep. That's been a good thing for all of us, I think.' Until now.Tell the Senate to vote NO on Kavanaugh here: https://t.co/9moK0dGKBT #StopKavanaugh pic.twitter.com/d6KUobBPLr— Democratic Coalition (@TheDemCoalition) September 18, 2018Remember Kristin Mink, the mom who confronted former EPA chief Scott Pruitt in a DC restaurant before he resigned? She chimed in too.Kavanaugh in 2015: "What happens at Georgetown Prep, stays at Georgetown Prep. That's been a good thing for all of us…"#TimesUp #CancelKavanaughcc: @SenKamalaHarris @CoryBooker @senjudiciary @ChuckGrassley @SenFeinstein @maziehirono @SenatorLeahy pic.twitter.com/dSkAJztUR0— Kristin Mink (@KristinMinkDC) September 18, 2018The video has fueled even more calls for Kavanaugh to withdraw his nomination.	Liberal
At the end of August, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to give his one-time rival, Republican Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, his standard endorsement message. However, unlike most of his other tweets that include the same phrase touting GOP strength, the President substituted an attack on Cruz’s opponent.In his message, Trump took a shot at El Paso, Texas, native, Democratic Representative Beto O’Rourke. The President called out O’Rourke as “a disaster for Texas – weak on Second Amendment, Crime, Borders, Military, and Vets!”I will be doing a major rally for Senator Ted Cruz in October. Im picking the biggest stadium in Texas we can find. As you know, Ted has my complete and total Endorsement. His opponent is a disaster for Texas – weak on Second Amendment, Crime, Borders, Military, and Vets! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 31, 2018The slam against O’Rourke’s treatment of military veterans prompted one Texan to go public with her own Beto O’Rourke story. United States Marine Corps veteran Lauren Withrow also took to Twitter, on September 4, to tell a very different story of O’Rourke.Withrowwho suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)reports for her local paper in Texas, in the 4th smallest county in the state. She describes herself as a small-town reporter, sports journalism enthusiast and single mom. She first met Beto O’Rourke when she interviewed him for her paper.In a series of seven tweets, Withrow shared her very personal and painful story. Her message eventually made its way to Now This, who turned it into one of their videos. Activists like Alyssa Milano and organizations like Vote Vets have since shared Withrow’s story as well.Watch the Now This video here.This veteran struggling with PTSD shared a heartfelt voicemail that @BetoORourke left for her to show the country his true character pic.twitter.com/I2DV0nFjCF NowThis (@nowthisnews) September 18, 2018This is what PATRIOTISM looks like, and what love for your fellow countrypeople looks like. ????Please watch and share. Thank you, @BetoORourke https://t.co/rjd8DACwr1 VoteVets (@votevets) September 18, 2018This veteran struggling with PTSD shared a heartfelt voicemail that @BetoORourke left for her to show the country his true character (I recommend turning up the sound) pic.twitter.com/ZqLwxOs9mY Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) September 18, 2018According to her Twitter thread titled “The Beto O’Rourke I Know”, Withrow decided to research O’Rourke after hearing about his work for veterans.The @BetoORourke I Know: Ive gotten to know Beto over the last 9 months. Im a Marine Corps veteran w PTSD, a single mom, and I live in the 4th smallest county in TX. I cant say Im someone who could make a big impact on a campaign. But somehow that hasnt seemed be 1/7 pic.twitter.com/AtYspmAVbr Lauren Marie Withrow (@laurenwithrow) September 4, 2018something Beto or his campaign has minded. I started researching Beto when I found out about his bipartisan work on behalf of veterans, especially regarding access to mental health resources. This issue became especially poignant on August 11 when I attempted to end my life. 2/7 pic.twitter.com/Krn01S2FXc Lauren Marie Withrow (@laurenwithrow) September 4, 2018After Withrow tried to end her life and before being admitted to the VA hospital and surrendering her phone, Withrow texted O’Rourke’s campaign to ask him to keep fighting for access to mental healthcare for veterans.After spending days in ICU, I was being transferred to the Dallas VA Hospital for mental health treatment. I texted Beto and his team to tell them what Id done and how important their work for veterans is, and then I had to give my phone up for several days, the duration of 3/7 pic.twitter.com/QtUp3Y2siQ Lauren Marie Withrow (@laurenwithrow) September 4, 2018After being released from the hospital, Withrow found several texts from O’Rourke’s campaign and two personal voicemails from O’Rourke himself.	Liberal
The decision by Republicans to hold a public hearing into the sexual assault accusation regardingSupreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh has Democrats crying foul now that Republicans have indicated only Kavanaugh and Christine Blasey Ford, the Stanford University professor who accused him of assaulting her in the 1980s, will be present. Democrats saidthey need to hear from a Kavanaugh classmate who Ford said was present during the attack and that the FBI needs to reopen its background check of Kavanaugh to investigate Ford’s allegation and interview possible witnesses.“What about individuals who were previously told about this incident? What about experts who can speak to the effects of this kind of trauma on a victim?” said top Judiciary Committee Democrat Dianne Feinstein (CA), who wants to hear fromKavanaughs classmate, Mark Judge, who Ford said was present during the alleged assault. Feinstein further accused Republicans of trying to “rush” the nomination process.“What about individuals who were previously told about this incident? What about experts who can speak to the effects of this kind of trauma on a victim?” said Feinstein.Referencing theSupreme Court confirmation hearing in which Justice Clarence Thomas was accused of sexually harassing Anita Hill when he was her supervisor at theUnited States Department of Educationand theEqual Employment Opportunity Commission, Feinstein said:“Compare that to the 22 witnesses at the 1991 Anita Hill hearing and its impossible to take this process seriously.”The Senate Judiciary Committee should allow the FBI to conduct a full investigation before we hold any hearings on the allegations Dr. Ford has made against Brett Kavanaugh. Holding a hearing without any investigation signals no interest in getting to the bottom of this.— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) September 18, 2018Dick Durbin, the Democratic senator from Illinois, concurred, saying Mark Judge is “identified specifically as an eyewitness and should testify.His simple denial is not the end of the questioning, Durbin told reporters. If he appears under oath there are questions that will be asked, I am sure.Rs are rushing a hearing within a week after a serious, credible allegation of sexual assault against Judge Kavanaugh. No FBI background investigation has been completed, no witnesses beyond the Judge & Dr. Blasey Ford have been asked to testify. Rs are trying to rig the hearing.— Senator Dick Durbin (@SenatorDurbin) September 18, 2018Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer also doubled down on the callfor the FBI to reopen its background check of Kavanaugh. In a series of tweets, Schumer said the White House “has intentionally chosen to bury its head in the sand and make weak excuses” for a nominee President Donald Trump has thrown his full support behind.Instead of having the FBI investigate these serious allegations as part of the standard background investigation process, the White House has intentionally chosen to bury its head in the sand and make weak excuses.https://t.co/2dsl2pFAhS— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) September 18, 2018We need the FBI to step forward and ensure that the Senate and American public have complete information about this troubling alleged incident before a hearing is held.— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) September 18, 2018The White House understands very well that we arent asking to open a criminal investigation, but to have the FBI re-open and complete the standard background investigation for someone who has been nominated for a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court.— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) September 18, 2018Indeed, President Trumpsaid he remains “totally supportive” of Kavanaugh, and believes, although he hasn’t spoken with him personally about the accusation, that “he can handle himself better than anybody, hes a very outstanding guy.”Trump further stressed that the FBI should not investigate the matter.I dont think the FBI should be involved because they dont want to be involved, if they wanted to be I would certainly do that,” Trump said. “This is not really their thing. The senators will do a good job.”President Trump answers questions on Judge #Kavanaugh confirmation process: "I don't think the FBI really should be involved, because they don't want to be involvedI think, politically speaking, the senators will do a very good job." pic.twitter.com/BEPn6wBfN7— CSPAN (@cspan) September 18, 2018Nevertheless, many have joined the call for a fair(er) hearing. Among them: Senator Kamala Harris, who also cited the Anita Hill hearing and said “it is imperative that we hear from the other witnesses.”Two things are clear: the White House needs to direct the FBI to re-open the background check before the Kavanaugh hearing and it is imperative that we hear from the other witnesses. During the Anita Hill hearing, the Senate heard from 22 witnesses. pic.twitter.com/Fu4WKDkrpb— Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) September 18, 2018This is not acceptable. When is the @FBI going to do the investigation? AFTER the hearing? That would be ridiculous. Never?  That would just be wrong  very wrong.https://t.co/silLWyhvJV— Sheldon Whitehouse (@SenWhitehouse) September 18, 2018The FBI can't investigate Dr. Blasey Ford's allegations unless the WH directs them to reopen Judge Kavanaugh's background investigation. Why not do that & let professionals handle this instead of having a partisan circus? https://t.co/1lqtHCtfYO— Joyce Alene (@JoyceWhiteVance) September 18, 2018Asked if he would support the FBI investigating Kavanaugh allegation, Trump says, It wouldnt bother me… other than the FBI said it wouldnt do that, its not what they do.Its the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Thats exactly what they do.— Peter Alexander (@PeterAlexander) September 18, 2018Why not have the FBI look into Kavanaugh accusations? "It wouldn't bother me" other than that the FBI says it isn't something they do, Trump says— Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) September 18, 2018	Liberal
If you imagined that the summer of 2018 was killing you, chances are, you werent alone. Science indicates that humidity, one of the defining hallmarks of an overbearing summer heat wave, actually does have the potential to kill you. The summer of 2018 was exceptionally deadly, as it was the 4th hottest summer on record.In August of this year, 17 states in the eastern US were under heat advisory warnings. In addition to the already high temperatures, the combination of heat and humidity easily makes temperatures feel like they are well in the 100s. This is hot enough to be a legitimate health concern for many people.People sometimes dont realize that they need to take some extra precautions. That they need to take it easy, not do so many activities outside, and drink plenty of water, said Suzanne Beavers, a medical officer at the Center for Disease Control.Heat is actually the deadliest type of weather in the United States. Hundreds of heat-related deaths occur every year. Given the recent trend of climate change causing increased heat waves, it is likely that the annual death toll related to the heat will continue to rise. Serious health related complications, and an exacerbation of existing illness, can occur even when death does not occur. A great deal of these damaging weather patterns are directly associated with climate change.Our attitude towards the environment has been so reckless that we are running out of good choices for the future. For heat waves, our options are now between bad or terrible. Many people around the world are already paying the ultimate price of heat waves, and while models suggest that this is likely to continue to be bad, it could be much worse if emissions are not considerably reduced, said Camilo Mora, associate professor at the University of Hawaii at Manoa.This trend will only continue to worsen, according to many scientific experts.Study after study finds discernible fingerprints of climate change in contemporary heat waves. We have overlooked that some of the most dangerous warming is associated with increasingly intense heat waves plus urban heat, Globally, more people live in cities and that trend will continue,” said Dr. Marshall Shepherd, director of the University of Georgia’s Atmospheric Sciences Program.The human body is meant to exist in a place of balance, known as homeostasis. Essentially, this means that the human body functions best at 98.6 degrees, give or take a variation of one degree. When our body temperature gets too high or low, several internal systems bring our body back into a place of homeostasis. For example, when we get too hot, we sweat. However, when external temperature and humidity get too high, those internal regulatory systems are less effective. As the body tries to cool itself through sweating, a person can become dehydrated.	Liberal
During his highly politicized confirmation hearings earlier this month, Judge Brett Kavanaugh made one outstandingly ridiculous claim, amongst a sea of ridiculous claims. While answering questions about a 2015 dissent that he wrote, Kavanaugh stated that certain forms of birth control are abortion-inducing drugs.The 2015 case involved a Catholic organization that brought suit over legal requirements that employers include contraception coverage in all available healthcare plans. The Catholic organization, Priests for Life, state that the legal requirement would violate the Religious Freedom Restoration act. This argument was made, despite the fact that the federal healthcare law allowqed for an exception that employers with religious objections could use alternative insurance companies to provide the necessary coverage for its employees.“That was a group that was being forced to provide certain kind of health coverage over their religious objection to their employees. And under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, the question was first, was this a substantial burden on the religious exercise? And it seemed to me quite clearly it was. It was a technical matter of filling out a form in that case. In that case, they said filling out the form would make them complicit in the provision of the abortion-inducing drugs that they were, as a religious matter, objected to, said Kavanaugh.I want to be sure we're all clear about something that Brett Kavanaugh said in his confirmation hearings last week. He referred to birth-control pills as "abortion-inducing drugs." That set off a lot of alarm bells for me, and it should for you, too.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 12, 2018It is unclear which forms of contraception Kavanaugh was referring to.The phrase abortion-inducing is typically used by conservative and religious anti-abortion groups. The phrase refers to contraceptive methods that they feel can prevent a fertilized egg from implanting in the uterus. Many forms of contraception including birth control, IUDs, and condoms work to prevent egg attachment and pregnancy.In addition to many dissenters of Kavanaugh’s choice of words, Planned Parenthood issued a demonstrative statement in opposition to Kavanaugh.The argument for the lawyers of Priests for Life was that they objected to all birth control. In Kavanaugh’s testimony, his description of their objection characterized all types of birth control as ‘abortion-inducing drugs. In reaching for a term to describe all types of birth control, the word he chose was ‘abortion-inducing drugs,” said Beth Lynk, a spokeswoman for Planned Parenthood.Planned Parenthoods initial response drew criticism from Kavanaugh supporters. In their initial statement, Planned Parenthood left out the words they said, implying that Kavanaughs words were a direct reflection of his own views. “Judge Kavanaugh was plainly describing the parties’ arguments in the case, not stating his own views. That’s why he used the words ‘they said’ words that are being conveniently omitted from the quotation lifted out of context, said Travis Lenker, a former clerk for Kavanaugh.Dissenters of Kavanaugh, however, still expressed concern over his choice of words.“Saying ‘abortion-inducing drugs’ to describe contraception is straight out of the anti-choice, anti-science phrase book used to restrict women’s access to essential health care,” said the Center for Reproductive Rights.	Liberal
Texas Democratic candidate for Senate Beto O’Rourke has been transforming the state’s political landscape with his progressive platform and Texans’ embrace of it.While speaking to a crowd at Good Street Baptist Church in Dallas, O’Rourke spoke out passionately against the murder of Botham Jean, the young African American man who was killed in his own apartment when a white police officer mistook his apartment for her own.Off-duty police officer Amber Guyger shot Jean in his own home, supposedly mistaking him for a burglar. Guyger remains on paid administrative leave despite facing charges for manslaughter. In a move that angered many Texans, a search warrant was granted for Jean’s apartment (rather than Guyger’s) where authorities found a small amount of marijuana in his kitchen.O’Rourke said about the shooting:“How can it be, in this day and age, in this very year, in this community, that a young man, African-American, in his own apartment, is shot and killed by a police officer and when we all want justice and the facts and the information to make an informed decision, what’s released to the public? That he had a small amount of marijuana in his kitchen. How can that be just in this country? How can we continue to lose the lives of unarmed Black men in the United State of America at the hands of white police officers?The crowd immediately rose to its feet in a standing ovation, hailing O’Rourke’s testament, with many appearing to be in tears.You can watch it for yourself below:How can we continue to lose the lives of unarmed Black men in the United State of America at the hands of white police officers? @BetoORourke speaking out on Botham Jean pic.twitter.com/hte5idsTrM— NowThis (@nowthisnews) September 17, 2018But it wasn’t just those lucky enough to witness the rousing speech who were lauding O’Rourke’s unambiguous stance. Twitter immediately began praising the candidate.Beto ORourke continues to remind everyone why we kneel speaking about the unjust murder of Botham Jean. To the beautiful people of Texas, please make him a reality. We need leaders like him! This country needs him! Retweet This Widely! pic.twitter.com/z96VbdPjXx— StanceGrounded (@_SJPeace_) September 17, 2018Glad to see @BetoORourke speaking out on the murder of #BothamJean – an injustice that's ongoing, as police try to smear him and protect their own. https://t.co/Py3sjL1Gqa— Leah #StopKavanaugh Greenberg (@Leahgreenb) September 18, 2018Y'all better show up for Beto O'Rourke in Texas. Poll cousins, aunts, uncles, etc…if need be, get them registered or re-registered and make sure they vote.#BothamJean https://t.co/uHAdCT2GMu— Jayson (@jaybizball) September 18, 2018Some compared his charisma and courage to that of other legendary politicians.Who else thinks Beto reminds them of the late Bobby Kennedy? We need to put honor before money and make our country the best country in the world. #BetoForTexas #ILoveWillieNelson We are better united than divided.— JJ (@JuicyJesssy) September 17, 2018@BetoORourke reminds me of @BarackObama. It's his intelligence and the way he speaks with that confidence and conviction that's undeniable. Thank goodness there are still people in this country like these two. #VoteBlue #Resist #BothamJean— Victor Richardson (@VRDiplomat) September 18, 2018Meanwhile, the statement on Botham Jean from O’Rourke’s opponent Ted Cruz stands in diametric opposition.	Liberal
On Tuesday morning, President Donald Trump posted two tweets to his Twitter account that left people trying to discern their full meaning.Were they an attempt to discredit the Mueller investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential electionnow that Trump’s former Washington lobbyist and campaign manager struck a dealby creating an ‘everyone meddles in our elections’ narrative? While it is unlikely, it is possible.Or were they an attempt to strong arm China in the trade war Trump started, but seems to be losing based on companies forced out of business in the United States and on $6 billion in farm bailouts Trump authorized? This also seems unlikely as China could chalk this up to just another Trump Twitter smear campaign against them.Or is the President trying to turn his falling job approval numbers and rally attendance around in hopes of bolstering support for the GOP heading into November’s 2018 midterm elections by telling those who no longer support him they are pawns of a foreign government? This seems the most likely motive.Trump’s tweets stated China’s response to tariffs Trump imposed on their productsretaliatory tariffs of their ownwere actually an attempt to influence United States elections.China has openly stated that they are actively trying to impact and change our election by attacking our farmers, ranchers and industrial workers because of their loyalty to me. What China does not understand is that these people are great patriots and fully understand that….. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 18, 2018…..China has been taking advantage of the United States on Trade for many years. They also know that I am the one that knows how to stop it. There will be great and fast economic retaliation against China if our farmers, ranchers and/or industrial workers are targeted! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 18, 2018Trump imposed 10 percent tariffs on about $200 billion worth of Chinese imports on Monday.China intends to retaliate with tariffs against $60 billion worth of US exports.Indeed, many of the tariffs China imposed hit Trump support bases in the farming and ranching areas of the South and midwest. However, those tariffs hit major products exported to China.Standard strategy in any war is to hit the opponent where it hurts them most. Increasing tariffs on products China does not import or is unable to get through other supply channels makes no strategic sense.As for Trump’s statement on industrial workers, their impact came because of one of the first tariffs Trump imposed against China as well as Canada, Mexico and the EU, not actions taken by China in response to Trump’s tariffs.The President imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum from most of the international supply chains used by industrial manufacturing in the United States. Several major manufacturers stated they would move operations overseas as a result, while smaller factories simply shut down.In a war, you fight to win. To expect your opponent to do otherwise is naive and dangerous.But did Trump’s inexperience with international trade and foreign relations mean he had no idea how trade partners would react? Did he expect to impose tariffs and receive no retaliation?The President’s tweets point to a great deal of naivete which is why many wonder at another motive for the message. While the President began a trade war with China, firing the first shots, his Twitter posts appear to say he cannot believe China not only responded, but they responded well strategically.People posit, surely Trump could not be that naive.And China surely did respond well. They even created this bit of propaganda for the conflict.	Liberal
Republican voters may be getting complacent, and it could cost them the U.S. House of Representatives, according to a new internal poll conducted by the Republican National Committee.The poll presents dim news for Republicans,Joshua Green of Bloomberg Business reported on Tuesday.An internal RNC poll shows complacent Trump voters may cost the GOP control of Congress https://t.co/IwG7uXJltt— Bloomberg (@business) September 18, 2018The study, based on polling conducted byPublic Opinion Strategies, showed that71 percent of respondents said they think it’s “extremely” or “somewhat likely” that Democrats will regain control of Congress, versus only 25 percent who said the opposite.“The Democrat(ic) party holds an image advantage over the GOP.Democrats hold a 9-point edge over Republicans on a generic ballot, the poll says, along with “a wide gender gap and generation gap.” Democrats are “favored by women of all ages and also by men aged 18-44,” Green writes.Republicans and Trump supporters see it differently.“Fully half of self-identified Republicans dont believe Democrats are likely to win back the House,” Green writes. “And within that group, 57 percent of people who describe themselves as strong Trump supporters dont believe Democrats have a chance (37 percent believe they do).”The problem for Republicans, however, is perceived voter complacency.Despite President Donald Trump’s boasting about a “red wave” in November that the president claims “could increase Republican majorities,” Trump’s tactics “appear to have lulled GOP voters into complacency, raising the question of whether theyll turn up at the polls,” according to Green’s analysis of the poll.Amusing: Trumps confident talk of a red wave has apparently convinced his loyal followers that there is no reason to bother voting in November – this according to an internal RNC poll.  https://t.co/ZLNLzcpRxv— Helen Kennedy (@HelenKennedy) September 18, 2018The report urges rank-and-file Republicans to make sure their voters actually show up.“We need to make real the threat that Democrats have a good shot of winning control of Congress,” the report says.The issue for Republican voters, the study finds, is that their trust in Trump may give them the impression there’s nothing at stake in the midterm elections, thus causing them to abstain from voting.Trump has been touting a “red wave” (something he has made up without any evidence to support it) that will continue the Republican majorities in Congress. Since June, the president has tweeted about it seven times, though it’s usually something he says “might” happen.Great night for Republicans! Congratulations to John Cox on a really big number in California. He can win. Even Fake News CNN said the Trump impact was really big, much bigger than they ever thought possible. So much for the big Blue Wave, it may be a big Red Wave. Working hard!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2018Republicans should stop wasting their time on Immigration until after we elect more Senators and Congressmen/women in November. Dems are just playing games, have no intention of doing anything to solves this decades old problem. We can pass great legislation after the Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 22, 2018Presidential Approval numbers are very good – strong economy, military and just about everything else. Better numbers than Obama at this point, by far. We are winning on just about every front and for that reason there will not be a Blue Wave, but there might be a Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018As long as I campaign and/or support Senate and House candidates (within reason), they will win! I LOVE the people, & they certainly seem to like the job Im doing. If I find the time, in between China, Iran, the Economy and much more, which I must, we will have a giant Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018RED WAVE!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018Great Republican election results last night. So far we have the team we want. 8 for 9 in Special Elections. Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 15, 2018A Blue Wave means Crime and Open Borders. A Red Wave means Safety and Strength!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 21, 2018This, the survey says, may actually be imperiling Republicans because their voters might just sit out the midterm elections, believing their vote won’t matter.Trump is becoming the victim of actual fake news: His own. https://t.co/hmtAVIocsT— Philip Bump (@pbump) September 18, 2018Skepticism about polls plays a factor, too.“While a significant part of that lack of intensity is undoubtedly due to these voters sentiments toward the President, it may also be partly because they dont believe there is anything at stake in this election,” the study authors write. “Put simply, they dont believe that Democrats will win the House. (Why should they believe the same prognosticators who told them that Hillary was going to be elected President?)”Internal RNC poll shows that Trump stans believe in Trumps red wave and arent worried about voting in November  https://t.co/eNE8qOVq72— (((Je Suis Weber))) (@jerweber) September 18, 2018Despite showing that 40 percent of respondents think the country is heading in the right direction, the POS poll, which should be good news for the incumbent party in power, Republicans are facing another problem – simply having enough voters.It’s true that Trump enjoys substantial approval within his own party.“Republicans dont have a base problem,” the report says. “Those voters who strongly approve of the President and those who support both his policies and leadership style are genuinely passionate about voting in the election and are voting GOP lock, stock, and barrel.”Trump has tried to use his base’s trust to drum up fears that he could be impeached if Democrats win enough seats.	Liberal
On Sunday, Donald Trump Jr. tweeted out a photo of Anderson Cooperstanding in waist-deep water during a hurricane and claimed that CNN was “lying” and attempting to make his father “look bad.”Its a shame that CNNs ratings are down 41%. Whats worse is theres a simple solution that they refuse to accept. Stop Lying to try to make @realDonaldTrump look bad. https://t.co/O3XyWchsJh pic.twitter.com/BCUCxKnOvO— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 16, 2018This was a variation on a meme that made its way around conservative online circles, which accused Cooper of faking a shot to make the flooding look even worse than it was.  You know its sad when even the WEATHER is #FakeNews. ???? #StayWokeMyFriendsA post shared by  ???? lynnepatton (@lynnepatton) on Sep 15, 2018 at 1:59pm PDTThe one problem: it’s fake news.So, Cooper took a few minutes during ‘AC 360’ last night to scold Don Jr., saying, I debated whether I should even respond tonight to the presidents son.He went on:“I know he considers himself an outdoorsman and pays a lot of money to be led to wildlife in Africa that he then kills.But Im not sure if hes actually been to a hurricane or a flood. I didnt see him down in North Carolina over the last few days helping out, lending a hand, but Im sure he was doing something important besides just tweeting lies.One problem with the photograph is that it wasn’t taken during Hurricane Florence, which battered the Carolinas over the past several days, but rather it was taken during Hurricane Ike in 2008. Trump Jr. shared the photo without context, and it was promptly retweeted more than 22,000 times.Cooper displayed Trump’s tweet on the air and also shared some of the responses that followed.Some guy said I was on my knees to make it look deep and then went on to say that I was used to being on my knees, which I assume is some sort of anti-gay reference, he said. Very classy.Cooper pointed out that at the time the photo was taken, he had actually told viewers that the floodwaters had receded. CNN had also shown footage of emergency vehicles driving down a road which was not nearly as flooded.You can argue I didnt need to be standing in waist-deep water, Cooper said. I could have been standing on the road by the camera crew. But, again, I didnt want to be roaming around on the highway interfering with rescue vehicles in any way. I also wanted to show people how deep the water was and how dangerous it is for anyone driving.Its easy to make fun of someone standing in water reporting. I get that.”Cooper also explained why he’d chosen to devote so much time on his show to debunking Trump Jr.’s tweet:I rarely respond to online conspiracy theorists or cable news cranks looking to get into a mutually beneficial beef that will boost their ratings…Ive covered hurricanes for about 14 years and it really does make me sad to think that anyone would think that I would try to fake something or overly dramatize a disaster…Look,I dont expect the presidents son to ever admit that he was wrong or one of the presidents advisers or frankly anyone else whos retweeted any of these pictures. But I at least thought that they and you should know the truth.Critics embraced Cooper’s thorough debunking of the lie, and Trump Jr. was soon assailed for propagating it.https://twitter.com/aravosis/status/1041853641655836672Follow the truth, follow the lies. In this clip, @andersoncooper exposes a blatant lie from Donald Trump Jr. https://t.co/3ErbkW3PsF— Marshall Cohen (@MarshallCohen) September 18, 2018WOW!!!  Thanks @andersoncooper for doing this report.  Thank you for exposing how the "truth is not truth" crowd which of which Donnie Trump Jr is one create false stories.  It is amazing how the alternative facts crowd actually believes the alternative rather than actual facts. https://t.co/Hs3WMLKqnY— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 18, 2018The sad part is that the people who needed to hear Anderson Cooper rip into Donald Trump Jr. are the people least likely to be watching CNN. Nobody volunteers to be deprogrammed. Still, we need more truth telling like this.— Steve Redmond (@sjredmond) September 18, 2018	Liberal
Conservatives on social media are freaking out over comments made by former Vice President Joe Biden, claiming he disparaged supporters of President Donald Trump as the “dregs of society.”Except Biden did not say that.During a speech to the Human Rights Campaign over the weekend, Biden was referring to “forces of intolerance,” such as the rise of white nationalism, and its support of Trump. Biden was not talking about “Trump voters.”“Despite losing in the courts, and in the court of opinion, these forces of intolerance remain determined to undermine and roll back the progress you all have made,” Biden said. “This time they  not you  have an ally in the White House. This time they have an ally. They’re a small percentage of the American people  virulent people, some of them the dregs of society.”Biden did, however, accuse the president of being a bully.“And instead of using the full might of the executive branch to secure justice, dignity, safety for all,” Biden added, “the president uses the White House as the literal  literal  bully pulpit, callously  callously  exerting his power over those who have little or none.”Donald Trump Jr. took Biden’s remarks really personally.We are all used to Creepy Joe saying stupid stuff but this is too far even for him. https://t.co/vNiD9TDZg6— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 16, 2018Despite what’s obvious from the video, however, right-wingers on Twitter went ballistic.Biden refers to Trump supporters as "dregs of society". This goes way beyond "deplorables". pic.twitter.com/TrMMKHtsUk— Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) September 16, 2018Sure they hate @realDonaldTrump, but they hate the average citizen more. And every now & then the mask drops "Biden Downgrades Trump-Supporting Deplorables to Dregs of Society" https://t.co/d0a8PXDNwZ via @NYJooo— Tammy Bruce (@HeyTammyBruce) September 17, 2018And you thought deplorable was bad… Former VP Joe Biden describes Trump supporters as dregs of society.  Go away, Creepy Joe! pic.twitter.com/3Cd8Wjf1SN— ForAmerica (@ForAmerica) September 17, 2018No, Joe Biden, the 1.5 million Tennesseans who voted for President Trump are not the "dregs of society."You should be ashamed https://t.co/iwZrqy0tGE— TNGOP (@TNGOP) September 17, 2018So did right-wing media.Joe Biden Calls Trump Supporters The 'Dregs Of Society' https://t.co/YExYODAJl4— The Daily Wire (@realDailyWire) September 17, 2018And Russia.#JoeBiden called #Trump voters the 'dregs of society' during an impassioned speech at LGBT charity event https://t.co/ysqEvT1a1S— RT (@RT_com) September 17, 2018Ironically, the comments about Biden demonstrate a point he never intended to make.	Liberal
A veteran Republican strategist is calling for Brett Kavanaugh to withdraw his nomination to the United States Supreme Court after the judge was accused of sexually assaulting a woman at a high school party in the 1980’s.I spent a lot of time thinking about the allegations against Brett Kavanaugh and what to do next. For the integrity of the Supreme Court and its future rulings, he should withdraw https://t.co/0e0VKcN8RK— Evan Siegfried (@evansiegfried) September 17, 2018In a powerful NBC editorial on Monday, Evan Siegfried begins by saying Kavanaugh “has a resume that makes him unquestionably qualified to sit on the highest court in the land.”“Further, I have found the attacks on him made by Democrats until now to be unfounded or pure spectacle made by politicians engaging in theatrics simply because they knew there were cameras on,” Siegfried says of Kavanaugh’s contentious confirmation hearings.Siegfried laments, however, that “after reading” the allegations against Kavanaugh, he “can no longer support Kavanaughs nomination and have concluded that for the good of the country, he must withdraw.”Last week, a confidential letter sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee accusing Kavanaugh of the attempted rape of a classmate at a high school party was made public without the author’s consent.According to the account, which we now know was written byChristine Blasey Ford, a research psychologist, Kavanaugh was “stumbling drunk” and pinned Ford down on a bed, covering her mouth as he forced himself on top of her.“I thought he might inadvertently kill me, said Ford of Kavanaugh during the alleged 1982 incident. “He was trying to attack me and remove my clothing.”Ford said that a friend, Mark Judge, jumped on top of them as he watched, inadvertently knocking Kavanaugh off Ford, allowing her to escape.Kavanaugh and Judge have fiercely denied the allegations.“I categorically and unequivocally deny this allegation,” Kavanaugh said in a statement. “I did not do this back in high school or at any time.”Judge’s memoir, however, references a friend named “Bart OKavanaugh” with whom he partied in “an environment rife with alcohol abuse and misbehavior,” as Siegfried puts it.Siegfried believes the accusations are enough to disqualify Kavanaugh for a seat on the High Court.“It might be impossible for a court of law, let alone the court of public opinion, to definitively determine the truth of what happened on that night in 1983, but Fords story is disturbing,” writes Siegfried.Siegfried writes that Ford’s story transcends the hyper-partisan political climate because she sought marriage counseling and reported the assault to her therapist back in 2012.Ford also passed a polygraph test in August. “The results… concluded that Ford was being truthful when she said a statement summarizing her allegations was accurate,” WaPo reported on Sunday.“While the psychiatrists note lacks names,” Siegfried says, “it is difficult to believe that Ford raised this in therapy six years ago as part of some master plan to stop Brett Kavanaughs Supreme Court nomination before Obama’s re-election.”Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA), the ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has known about Ford’s accusations since July and did not raise them during Kavanaugh’s confirmation hearings, which has irked Republicans who were banking on a Kavanaugh confirmation.Siegfried says that although “Feinstein has some explaining to do” regarding the timing of Ford’s letter, the “political shenanigans around Kavanaugh’s nomination do not give us a pass to take Fords allegation of attempted sexual assault lightly.”Siegfried described the accusations as a “sad ordeal,” reminding him of Anita Hill’s allegations of sexual harassment against Clarence Thomas in 1991. Thomas was ultimately confirmed to the Supreme Court, but “the accusations follow Thomas to this day  and Fords allegations will follow Kavanaugh, too,” Siegfried predicts.And while President Donald Trump could pick another nominee to replace Anthony Kennedy, the odds that “another nominee would be facing a sexual assault charge (particularly [Judge Amy Comey] Barrett) is minimal and the public would not have a tainted view of whoever is confirmed.”Siegfried also fears that a Kavanaugh confirmation could shatter public confidence in the Supreme Court, worrying that “a large portion of the American people would likely view him as illegitimate and challenge the validity of his appointment because of Fords accusations.”The future of the Supreme Court is too important, Siegfried writes, for Kavanaugh’s nomination to continue.“Kavanaugh must put the integrity of the Supreme Court and its future rulings first, and withdraw his nomination,” Siegfried concludes. “Trump can then replace him with a nominee with stellar credentials and no controversy.”The White House and Kavanaugh have said his nomination will not be withdrawn.	Liberal
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell took to the Senate floor to decry what he claims is a Democrat-led conspiracy to torpedo Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court nomination in the wake of sexual assault allegations.“Now, [an] accusation of 36-year-old misconduct dating back to high school has been brought forward at the last minute in an irregular manner. It is an accusation which Judge Kavanaugh has completely and unequivocally denied,” McConnell said, adding:“This is what he [Kavanaugh] said: ‘This is a completely false allegation. I’ve never done anything like what the accuser describes to her or to anyone.’It is an accusation which the ranking member of the Committee for Jurisdiction [Dianne Feinstein] has known about for at least six weeks. Known about for six weeksyet chose to keep secret until the 11th hour.”.@SenateMajLdr McConnell is on the Senate floor making a case that the Kavanaugh allegation is the result of a conspiracy hatched by Democrats who are just looking to derail his nomination pic.twitter.com/ZneoZwurY5— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) September 17, 2018McConnell proceeded to further criticize the way Democrats have handled the allegations, saying they never raised the allegations even with accuser Christine Blasey Ford’s name redacted:They did not raise it in the thousand plus follow-up questions that senators sent to Judge Kavanaugh in writing. But now, at the 11th hour, with committee votes on schedule, after Democrats have spent weeks and weeks searching for any possible reason that the nomination should be delayed, now they choose to introduce this allegation.McConnell’s claim that the way Democrats are handling the allegation is an “irregular” departure from the traditional process of confirming Supreme Court nominees opened him up to criticism immediately.Liberal opponentshave opposed the nomination, citing a precedentset by McConnell, who infamously refused to hold hearings for Merrick Garland, President Barack Obamas nomination for the high court. At the time, McConnell claimed that the Senate should not confirm Supreme Court nominees during an election year, though he could cite no rules to support this assertion, and accusations that his decision was informed, at least in part, by racial animus toward Obama have dogged him ever since.I will resume listening to process complaints from Mitch McConnell on the day Merrick Garland sits on the Supreme Court. https://t.co/V2uhicl19Z— Nathan Murphy (@SeattleNathan) September 17, 2018I cant. Mitch McConnell, you had a legitimate President (Obama) exercising his constitutional right to nominate a SCOTUS during his elected term and YOU and these other sloths disregarded all standard bi-partisan process and regular order. https://t.co/Ie6kji1c8S— M Lowe Ok (@MLoweOK) September 17, 2018Excuse me? https://t.co/lh39BZoWEU— Dan Pfeiffer (@danpfeiffer) September 17, 2018Alexa… Order 1,000 leaf GARLANDS and send them to Mitch McConnell at 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington DC 20510. https://t.co/AF1ULv3R2u— Kaz Weida (@kazweida) September 17, 2018Mitch McConnell says the sexual assault accusation against Kavanaugh was brought forth in an irregular manner. So I suppose denying Merrick Garland a hearing & threatening to keep the SCOTUS seat open for an entire administration if Hillary had won was totally regular manner? pic.twitter.com/aHW609lkof— Kimber Lofgren (@KimberLofgren) September 17, 2018In July, McConnell was similarly rebuked after he urged his fellow senators tosee beyondthe far-left fear mongering before evaluating President Donald Trump’s eventual Supreme Court nominee “fairly.”Americans see beyond the far-left fear mongering. Senators should do the same. We should evaluate @POTUSs nominee fairly, based on their qualifications. And we should treat this process with the respect and the dignity that it deserves. #SCOTUSNomination— Leader McConnell (@SenateMajLdr) July 9, 2018The facts were not lost on many who responded to McConnells message and charged him with hypocrisy, with some quoting the following tweet, in which McConnell said the American people should have a voice in choosing the next Supreme Court justice before the Senate could start confirmation hearings.As said by someone who stole a Supreme Court appointment from President Obama. Mr. McConnell, you deserve the same thing that you have been dishing out for years. Please dont speak for the American people – you only represent a small segment of the population.— Lizmo (@Lizmo56) July 10, 2018You in 2016: The American people deserve to have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice.Us in 2018: The American people deserve to have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice.You set the precedent. Live by your own words.— Liz Prager OBrien (@LPOB65) July 10, 2018Giving Merrick Garland a hearing would have been a fair way to evaluate him, but you refused.— jordan (@JordanUhl) July 9, 2018Complicating matters for McConnell: Several Republican lawmakers have gone on record sayingthat the Senate must postpone its vote on Kavanaugh until after Ford testifies.	Liberal
In keeping with the rhetoric of President Donald Trump, many conservatives leap at any chance to accuse the media of “fake news,” especially CNN.The usual target is the network’s political reporting, of course, but as Hurricane Florence swept through the Carolinas, conservatives instead began targeting its weather coverage, starting with a widely-shared meme of CNN anchor Anderson Cooper standing in waist-deep water, claiming that Cooper had staged the shot.The meme was even shared by senior Housing and Urban Development official Lynne Patton.https://www.instagram.com/p/BnwtN8eHSGJ/In addition to Donald Trump Jr. and other Trump loyalists.Its a shame that CNNs ratings are down 41%. Whats worse is theres a simple solution that they refuse to accept. Stop Lying to try to make @realDonaldTrump look bad. https://t.co/O3XyWchsJh pic.twitter.com/BCUCxKnOvO— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 16, 2018Absolutely disgraceful! Apparently #HurricaneFlorence wasnt devastating enough for @CNNs @andersoncooper  so he had to exaggerate for his live shot. #FakeNews at its finest! pic.twitter.com/9pUJ6Ulgqf— Gavin J. Smith (@iamgavinjames) September 15, 2018Anderson Cooper of CNN in a ditch pretending to be in waist deep water#CnnIsSoFakeThey cant help themselves.Help us expose @AndersonCooper & @CNN as #FakeNews with a #RETWEETShameful #HurricaneFlorence2018 propaganda to attack @realDonaldTrump Join https://t.co/ZbnntViW4T pic.twitter.com/2JPOAxv6s8— We Support 45 (@WeSupport45) September 15, 2018But turns out, the claim is honest to goodness fake news.According to Snopes, the pictures of Cooper come from his 2008 coverage of Hurricane Ike in Texas. When faced with this reality, some conservatives insisted that it didn’t matter. The point was silent.It's still fraud your point is mute— EVILEAGLE (@JasonWWalton1) September 16, 2018https://twitter.com/Susan81605624/status/1041088567722704897Even if its an old photo.. its still @CNN caught creating fake news— OrgConservAmericans (@OCAmericans) September 16, 2018But, again, that was fake news.Not only is the coverage not of Hurricane Florence, but Cooper’s report is addressing the abrupt changes in water levels to warn viewers of flood hazards, which he demonstrates.A lot of right wing loons are spreading a photo of Anderson Cooper waist deep in water during Hurricane Florence. They allege he was faking the extent of the flood.It was actually Hurricane Ike and Anderson was showing how deep the water was in places.He even petted a dog. pic.twitter.com/mWcT1URVmw— #VotePlease (@Care2much18) September 17, 2018Users were eager to point this out.https://twitter.com/KFILE/status/1041726446228697088It was actually from a special that he ran the day after Hurricane Ike.  He is standing in a ditch and during the special he also walked around in order to show the variations of depths in the water.  Even if that wasn't what he was doing EVERYONE looks for the best shot!— MMackie (@mackiem68) September 15, 2018Cool pic. Why dont you tell your followers its ten years old?  Has absolutely nothing to do with coverage of your dad. And it demonstrates the dangers of driving in flooded areas – a few inches to feet without warning, which has resulted in many deaths. Whos misleading who?— Matt Dornic (@mdornic) September 16, 2018However, the facts didn’t seem to change too many minds.	Liberal
Senator Ted Cruz’s (R-TX) reelection campaign sent out deceitful mailers to Texas voters disguised as court summonses, prompting confusion and blowback in a Senate race that tightens by the day. Needless to say, people aren’t happy.The fundraising letter was packaged in abrown envelope withSUMMONS ENCLOSED-OPEN IMMEDIATELY plastered on the front. The return address reads “Official Travis County Summons.”NEW: The Ted Cruz campaign is mailing out donation requests disguised as legal summonses, confusing some Texas voters https://t.co/I3Nsab2aCe pic.twitter.com/UOWFL9KILX— Newsweek (@Newsweek) September 16, 2018“Received this for my 88-year-old grandma. Says it’s a summons from Travis County, but is actually asking for money for @tedcruz,” writes Sean Owen of Austin,Texas. “Did your campaign authorize this? Is this even legal? Shame on you. That’s one more @BetoORourke voter.”Received this for my 88-year-old grandma. Says it's a summons from Travis County, but is actually asking for money for @tedcruz . Did your campaign authorize this? Is this even legal? Shame on you. That's one more @BetoORourke voter. pic.twitter.com/NcFoOCvjFj— Sean Owen (@sean_r_owen) September 16, 2018Inside, recipients got what Owen described as a “normal campaign fundraising letter,” asking for pledges to help reelect Cruz.Some have asked what's inside. It's a quite normal campaign fundraising letter, and this form. Still a "Summons" and asking for a "affirmation" signature, but no mention anymore of Travis County (hmm) and more clearly about campaign donation. pic.twitter.com/tbMdkjGPzi— Sean Owen (@sean_r_owen) September 16, 2018The mailer struck Owen as slimy, especially because it was addressed to his grandmother, whom he says has dementia.“I am used to ignoring junk mail with URGENT or FINAL NOTICE written on it, but this fooled even me for a moment, as it plainly wants us to think it’s from our county governmentwhen it isn’t,” Owen toldNewsweek. “That’s different, that’s over the line. It made me mad because my grandmother suffered from some dementia, and could easily have followed the urgent request inside to send money.”People with elderly relatives came rushing to Owen’s defense on Twitter, agreeing that the Cruz campaign is attempting to swindle vulnerable people.An 88 year old woman may not be able to tell the difference. She could be so frightened she would send the money.— Okinawa Amma (@MsDiaryJp) September 16, 2018My mom is 84 and sadly living in an adult home (those folks working there are super heroes in my book). I get her mail. So yes, I think there should be stricter laws on junk mail. Theres way more out there, such as the crap with priority written on it.— bluesfantom (@bluesfantom) September 16, 2018Call your local news stations, to warn elderly voters of this scam.— Dap (@donnaperreira1) September 16, 2018An official within the Cruz campaign confirmed to Newsweek on Monday that they had, in fact, sent the mailer.Texas State Representative Gene Wu (D-Houston) said the fundraising letter violates theTexas Deceptive Trade Practices Act (DTPA).Hello. This is violation of the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act (DTPA).I know, because I passed this law in 2015.See below: https://t.co/9oga4Gq8Zy— Gene Wu (@GeneforTexas) September 16, 2018Wu cited a provision within the law that he believes Cruz violated.DTPA #29: pic.twitter.com/yspFcF8s90— Gene Wu (@GeneforTexas) September 16, 2018“This is the very type of solicitation the law was intended to ban,” Wu added.This is the very type of solicitation the law was intended to ban.Ones that pretend to be from a government agency.Confusing people & lowering trust.— Gene Wu (@GeneforTexas) September 16, 2018Others also questioned the legality of Cruz’s tactics.How is this even legal???— Liberallion (@terrepin13) September 17, 2018This is illegal. Anyone who receives this can, and should, sue him. They, and only, they have standing. https://t.co/hU1tymagXR— Stay Informed (@_stay_informed) September 17, 2018There's a 2015 law against political mailers like the one Cruz distributed.https://t.co/fRUcROxfXu— AlyceAndersyn (@AlyceAndersyn) September 17, 2018The word "summons" is a legal term of art, and widely understood to be a demand to appear before a magistrate or equivalent.This mailer constitutes intimidation and deceptive advertising.File a complaint here:https://t.co/Ky5STUo0pK— Monty Boa (@MontyBoa99) September 16, 2018Further information on the fact that the Cruz campaign's use of donation solicitations labeled as "Summons" is ILLEGAL:#LoseCruz #BetoForTexas #Beto .@BetoORourke https://t.co/mcTTiorvFE— Monty Boa (@MontyBoa99) September 17, 2018If this looks at all familiar, it should. Cruz employed a similar strategy during his 2016 presidential bid.	Liberal
During a speech at the Human Rights Campaignan LGBTQ advocacy organizationannual dinner, Vice President Joe Biden spoke about an agreement he had with President Barack Obama.In January 2017, after turning over the reins of the nation to their successorsPresident Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pencethe men decided to give the new administration a chance to establish itself before making any public statements about their performance.Biden stated:“Barack and I agreed to remain silent for a while to give this administration a chance to get up and running the first year.”“God forgive me.”By that August, Biden decided he could remain silent no longer.August 11-12, 2017 marked the dates of the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. During the demonstration of the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazis and other alt-right and white supremacist organizations, a manwith ties to the organizations leading the rallydrove a car into a crowd of counter-protestors, murdering Heather Heyer and injuring 19 others.A year later, many people took to Twitter to share images from the previous year while the organizers hoped to mount two commemorative ralliesone in Charlottesville and another in Washington DC. Unlike the first Unite the Right rally attended by several hundred or around 1,000 depending on the source, only a few dozen people turned out and left most of their white supremacist symbols at home.Welcome to Trumps America#UniteTheRight2 #AllOutDC #BlackLivesMatter pic.twitter.com/yCw0lDGmEE Aiden Benjamin (@AidenHagi) August 12, 201815) Which is kind of undermined by all the Confederate flags and MAGA hats the organizers side like to carry. This year in DC it was American flags. Oh, and the fact that they named it Unite the Right. pic.twitter.com/E0qlbKyPJz David Neiwert (@DavidNeiwert) August 13, 2018Biden clearly regretted not speaking out sooner. During his speech, he said:“We have leaders who at the time when that occurred, when these guys were accompanied by white supremacists and Ku Klux Klan … making a comparison saying there are good people in both groups. What has become of us? Our children are listening. Our silence is complicity.”By the end of August 2017, Biden wrote a piece for The Atlantic to address what happened and what those opposed to bigotry should do. He also called out President Trump for his reaction. In that piece, Biden stated:“We have fought this battle [against bigotry] beforebut today we have a special challenge.”“Today we have an American president who has publicly proclaimed a moral equivalency between neo-Nazis and Klansmen and those who would oppose their venom and hate.”“We have an American president who has emboldened white supremacists with messages of comfort and support.”“This is a moment for this nation to declare what the president cant with any clarity, consistency, or conviction: There is no place for these hate groups in America. Hatred of blacks, Jews, immigrantsall who are seen as ‘the other’wont be accepted or tolerated or given safe harbor anywhere in this nation.”President Trump took a great deal of criticismexcept from white supremacistsfor his remarks and actions following Charlottesville’s Unite the Right rally and the death and violence.	Liberal
While President Donald Trump may still have the support of most Republicans, some of the party’s most generous donors are putting their foot down as well as their wallets.Among these are the billionaire investor Seth Klarman, who usually keeps a low profile. Klarman spoke toNew York Timeswriter Bari Weiss on why he’s begun increasing his donations to Democratic candidates:One of the reasons Im willing to come out of my shell and talk to you is because I think democracy is at stake. And maybe Ill be able to convince some other people of that. And get them to support Democrats in 2018.Klarman was the top donor to the GOP in New England before the 2016 election, giving millions of dollars to Republican lawmakers like Marco Rubio and Paul Ryan. As theNew York Timesarticle points out, Klarman is not only giving exclusively to Democrats now, but givingmorethan he ever gave to Republicans by over double, as his soon-to-be-released F.E.C. filings will show later this month. Klarman is hoping the donations will help flip the house and senate, ensuring a “check on Donald Trump and his runaway presidency.”According to OpenSecrets.org, which tracks donations to candidates and causes, Klarman has donated exclusively to Democratic candidates in the year 2018. Though he donated to some Republicans in 2017, his donations that year were majorly for Democrats as well. Until around mid-2016-at the height of the brutal presidential campaign-his donations were primarily for Republican candidates.While Democrats admit that less money in the pockets of Republican politicians only benefits them, the presence of big money in politics isn’t exactly something to cheer about.Priority needs to be systemic change. Too few have influence over too many.— Derek Grabhorn (@derekgrabhorn) September 15, 2018all well and good BUT we need campaign finance reform or this shit will destroy U.S ALL— leonard bartolone (@leonardbartolo2) September 16, 2018Perhaps, instead of using his wealth to gain political favour and thereby make more money, Mr. Klarman should spend that $20 million on helping to fix Flint's water disaster or on helping in his fellow citizens in #PuertoRico.  Just a thought.— Maury Rempel (@mauryrempel) September 16, 2018I don't think anyone should be allowed to give that much money to any political party. Too much power…too much influence.— Sylvia Dacus (@Sadacus) September 16, 2018While the #WalkAway hashtag may have been invented by Trump supporters as a call to action for disgruntled Democrats, it’s Klarman and other Republican billionaires who seem to be heeding the advice.	Liberal
Tensions looked high at the Trump White House last week after several internal and external exposes and news coming from the federal courts. And late Friday night, George ConwayTrump’sWhite House counselor Kellyanne’s husbandthrew some more gasoline on the fire responding to a tweet from President Donald Trump.Looking to deflect from his own legal and political issues, Trump went all the way back to 2008 looking for an error from Barack Obama to use for a whataboutism on Twitter. The President catches a lot of criticism over his false statements in his speeches, rallies, official statements and Twitter posts.Multiple organizations actually track Trump falsehoods online, keeping running tallies. In order to prove he was not alone in making false claims, late Friday night, the President shared an incident from 2008 while then candidate Obama misspoke at a campaign rally, claiming no one in the media noticed.When President Obama said that he has been to 57 States, very little mention in Fake News Media. Can you imagine if I said that…story of the year! @IngrahamAngle Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 15, 2018But George Conway shot back, explaining how an Obama slip of the tongue that he acknowledged as a mistakehe meant to say 47 states of the 48 continental United Statesdiffered from the many examples the press and public highlight from Trump.Needless to say, theres a huge difference between an isolated slip of the tongue and ceaseless, shameless, and witless prevarication on virtually all topics, large and small. https://t.co/mvV8cgZLyp George Conway (@gtconway3d) September 15, 2018To rub a bit more salt in the wound, Conway then pinned the tweet to the top of his account page. He since unpinned it.President Donald Trump is still dealing with fallout from a tell-all book from a former staffer he personally brought on board from his own circle of friends. Now famed investigative journalist Bob Woodward released his book, Fear: Trump in the White House, covering the Trump administration based on 100s of hours of interviews with its members as well as memos, meeting notes and personal diaries.And the President still wants to know who in his inner circle went to The New York Times with an OpEd criticizing him.Not to mention there are multiple members of his family and administration involved in several ongoing investigations. The plea agreements for his former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, and the recently announced plea deal for his 1980s Washington lobbyist and 2016 campaign chairman Paul Manafort also must weigh heavily on the President.And while Conway made multiple asides on Twitter where he appeared to refer to the President, his attacks now leave no doubt. In fact, Conway’s tweets about Trump led some to believe The New York Times OpEd came from Kellyanne Conway.She denied the charge.Reactions to both tweets on Twitter were largely unkind to the President. Although he did garner some support.	Liberal
Last year, President Donald Trump promised that his plan to slash corporate taxes would result in trillions of dollars flowing back into the United States. Only a fraction of that money has been repatriated.President Trump said trillions in foreign cash is coming soon. Companies say not so fast. https://t.co/UrkWBE4Qlx— The Wall Street Journal (@WSJ) September 16, 2018“We expect to have in excess of $4 trillion brought back very shortly,” Trump told executives in 2017 while trying to sell his tax overhaul. “Over $4 [trillion], but close to $5 trillion, will be brought back into our country,” Trump added. “This is money that would never, ever be seen again by the workers and the people of our country.”The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday that despite Trump’s pledge that trillions of offshore dollars would flow back into the United States, corporations “have repatriated about $143 billion so far this year” out of the roughly $2.7 trillion in profits sitting in foreign bank accounts. This is based on “securities filings from 108 publicly traded companies.”Remember those trillions in corporate profits stashed abroad? Some are coming back, but not all at once. And some are never returning. New analysis today from @theofrancis and me: https://t.co/KQgofHgQTp— Richard Rubin (@RichardRubinDC) September 16, 2018The Commerce Department estimates that $305.6 billion has been repatriated in Q1 2018, which is more than 2016 and 2017 combined (the Commerce Department has access to private financial data). Of this, however, “more than $35 billion… reflects funds routinely repatriated on a quarterly basis before the tax overhaul.” New data is scheduled for release on September 19.We contacted 108 companies that had about 90% of the pre-tax-law foreign profits (total for these corps was $2.4T). We found just $143B coming back so far. Gov data finds more — they use confidential surveys. https://t.co/KQgofHgQTp via @WSJ— Richard Rubin (@RichardRubinDC) September 16, 2018Both numbers fallfar short of Trump’s $4 trillion dollar prediction.The amount of cash that's flowed back to the U.S. after Trump's massive tax law overhaul is just 3.5% of what he predicted https://t.co/PjE8ay3kPE— The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) September 17, 2018Furthermore, two-thirds of that $143 billion came from just two companies – communications behemoth Cisco and the pharmaceutical manufacturer Gilead, the Journal found. An additional $37 billion has been promised by other companies.Although the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act did mandate a one-time tax on overseas profits corporations have already earned, “whether or not money is repatriated,” the law “removes federal taxes on subsequent repatriations and makes future foreign profits generally free from U.S. taxes,” the WSJ noted.“The corporations are allowed a tax credit against U.S. taxes for taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions,” says a provision in Trump’s tax law. “This subtitle establishes a territorial system in which foreign source income is not subject to regular U.S. taxes.”Because of this, many companies “have said they dont need past foreign earnings in the U.S. or have no immediate plans to bring cash home,” the WSJ wrote.Trump’s claims that repatriated corporate cash would be used to create jobs has also been largely discredited. Cisco, for example, “plans to repurchase $25 billion in shares over two years,” the Journal said. “It has spent $14.5 billion on buybacks through July.”It's not that offshore cash repatriation is less than Trump expected. It's that most of that cash is used for buybacks pic.twitter.com/QbEfCvsS0B— zerohedge (@zerohedge) September 17, 2018Various analyses have shown that 40-60 percent of tax savings are used for stock buybacks, rather than in investments in, say, higher wages, which companies love to say they can’t afford. This practice was illegal in the United States until President Ronald Reagan lifted those regulations.	Liberal
Several legislators from opposite sides of the aisle have said that the Senate must postpone its vote on Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, in the wake of a sexual assault allegation.Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ), who sits on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said thatChristine Blasey Ford, who claims Kavanaugh attempted to rape her when they were teenagers,must be heard before the vote.“Ive made it clear that Im not comfortable moving ahead with the vote on Thursday if we have not heard her side of the story or explored this further, Flake toldThe Washington Post.For me, we cant vote until we hear more.NEWS: Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) tells me in an intv he that doesnt think the Judiciary Cmte should move ahead with its Thursday vote on Kavanaugh until they hear more from Christine Blasey Ford. For me, we cant vote until we hear more.— Sean Sullivan (@WaPoSean) September 16, 2018Republicans wanted to push toward a Judiciary Committee voteon Thursday but Flake’s stance could endanger that. Should Flake block the committee from advancing Kavanaugh’s nomination, Republicanscould attempt to bring Kavanaughs nomination directly to the Senate floor. But Republicans have 51 seats in the Senate and can only afford to lose two votes. Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), who is not on the Judiciary Committee, has said Ford should be heard before the panel votes, and his vote would be needed for a full Senate confirmation.“I think that would be best for all involved, including the nominee, Corker said of postponing the vote.Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) concurred.Well, I think that might be something they might have to consider, at least having that discussion,” said Murkowski, who is seen as among the likeliest to vote “no” on Kavanaugh’s confirmation. “This is not something that came up during the hearings. The hearings are now over, and if there is real substance to this, it demands a response. That may be something the committee needs to look into.”On the opposite side of the aisle, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) also agreed that the Senate should postpone its vote.“Senator Grassley must postpone the vote until, at a very minimum, these serious and credible allegations are thoroughly investigated. For too long, when woman have made serious allegations of abuse, they have been ignored. That cannot happen in this case,” Schumer said in a statement on yesterday.Schumer also took to Twitter to spread his message.“To railroad a vote now would be an insult to the women of America and the integrity of the Supreme Court,” he said in part.Re: WaPo report on Judge Kavanaugh, Sen Grassley must postpone vote until, at a very minimum, these serious & credible allegations are thoroughly investigated.For too long,when women have made serious allegations of abuse, they have been ignored.That cannot happen in this case.— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) September 16, 2018Judge Kavanaughs credibility has already been seriously questioned because of his answers regarding Manny Miranda, Judge Pryor, and other issues during his time in the Bush White House, and now his credibility is even more suspect.— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) September 16, 2018To railroad a vote now would be an insult to the women of America and the integrity of the Supreme Court.— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) September 16, 2018In a statement issued earlier this morning, former Vice President Joe Biden also urged the Senate to provide Ford with a “fair and respectful hearing of her allegations.”Moreover, the Judiciary Committee “should undertake a thorough and non-partisan effort to get to the truth, wherever it leads,” he said.Former VP Biden, who presided over Justice Thomas' confirmation hearings as a US senator, "believes Professor Ford deserves a fair and respectful hearing of her allegations," his spokesperson says. https://t.co/CsLhIMq5En pic.twitter.com/8QejTgaozp— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 17, 2018	Liberal
In a Fox News interview, former Secretary of State John Kerryone of the primary negotiators of the Obama administration’sIran Nuclear Dealstated that he met a few times with his former Iranian contemporaries after leaving office.The President saw these meetings as a challenge to his authority, despite Kerry’s having stated that all meetings occurred before Trump pulled out of the Iran Nuclear agreement against NATO allies’ advice in May. Trump, as is his style, took to Twitter to accuse Kerry of wrongdoing.He posted:“John Kerry had illegal meetings with the very hostile Iranian Regime, which can only serve to undercut our great work to the detriment of the American people. He told them to wait out the Trump Administration! Was he registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act? BAD!”John Kerry had illegal meetings with the very hostile Iranian Regime, which can only serve to undercut our great work to the detriment of the American people. He told them to wait out the Trump Administration! Was he registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act? BAD! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 14, 2018But Kerry fired back with a tweet of his own. The former Massachusetts Senator and presidential candidate suggested Trump should focus on other more important meetings, now that one-time Trump Organization lobbyist and campaign manager Paul Manafort struck a plea deal with Robert Mueller.Kerry retweeted the President’s original post and stated:“Mr. President, you should be more worried about Paul Manafort meeting with Robert Mueller than me meeting with Iran’s FM. But if you want to learn something about the nuclear agreement that made the world safer, buy my new book, Every Day Is Extra.”Mr. President, you should be more worried about Paul Manafort meeting with Robert Mueller than me meeting with Iran’s FM. But if you want to learn something about the nuclear agreement that made the world safer, buy my new book, Every Day Is Extra: https://t.co/DKjc33Kvvu https://t.co/cesltkt0zW John Kerry (@JohnKerry) September 14, 2018Then to add just a bit more salt to the wound, Kerry added a post script:“PS – I recorded the audio version, not Omarosa.”PS – I recorded the audio version, not Omarosa. John Kerry (@JohnKerry) September 14, 2018Reactions to the Twitter exchange heavily favored Kerry, both on Kerry’s post…pic.twitter.com/OAQpZTRDmf K ?? (@chunkled) September 14, 2018I really really like this John Kerry fella. KD (@KD_6411) September 14, 2018Cute. You think he can read. ?? Cynblogger (@CynBlogger) September 14, 2018Would likely need a prcis of a prcis. David Blakely (@Acliffe) September 14, 2018…and on the President’s post where most brought up the same people as KerryPaul Manafort and Robert Muelleras well as one other personRussian President Vladimir Putin.1. @realDonaldTrump tweeting about a private citizen meeting with a foreign government is literally unbelievable Sam Vinograd (@sam_vinograd) September 14, 20182. Does @POTUS actually not know what FARA / foreign agents registration act? Has nothing to do with meeting with foreigners. Sam Vinograd (@sam_vinograd) September 14, 2018Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, you had a private meeting with Putin, the president of a very hostile regime, after which you literally supported him denying evidence by our intelligence community to the entire world that his regime had indeed attacked our election. Stoop much? Melissa W (@MelJWW) September 14, 2018?????????? pic.twitter.com/0uJkwKMXQj Angel?? (@WhyNot_RESISTS) September 14, 2018TRANSLATION: Manafort just flipped two hours ago and I am scrambling to find anything to distract the stupid #MAGA cultists away from my impending doom. CulpableCrimes (@CulpableCrimes) September 14, 2018But Putin is our friend, right?? Jo Harrington (@mountainwench) September 14, 2018Hi Donny, I see you’re lying again. But the real reason I stopped by was to see how you’re doing? I was also curious if you still thought Manafort was brave? You know, since Manafort: pic.twitter.com/hlRHsx6c5O Cathy Voisard (@ZPoet) September 14, 2018HELSINKI #pornpresident. Beverly Atherton (@BeverlyAtherto4) September 14, 2018pic.twitter.com/Z7fxmBbNvJ Sasha “3k people died in PR, Trump” Cohen (@dangertheatre) September 14, 2018Hey goofus-maximus, first, there is no law preventing private citizens from meeting with Iranians or anyone else we choose to meet. Secondly, he was not acting as an agent for any government. UR possibly the dumbest motherfucker on earth. keith hall (@kfhall0852) September 14, 2018Kerry’s statements about meeting with Iranian officials he worked with during his tenure as Secretary of State came during his media tour to promote his new book.	Liberal
Hillary Rodham Clinton’s 2016 nomination was historic, but if members on the Texas Board of Education get their way, it could just be history.The board convened to change the social studies curriculum across the state to a more “streamlined” format. This included a vote to remove the 2016 Democratic nominee, former Secretary of State, Senator, and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton from the curriculum of Texas public schools. The decision also sought to remove historical figures like Helen Keller and Barry Goldwater in favor of Moses and the Alamo.Clinton has been a mandatory subject in a curriculum on significant political figures alongside Supreme Court Justices Thurgood Marshall and Sandra Day O’Connor.However, the vote is not final and there have been amendments on the final curriculum decisions in the past. For example, an education group consulted by the board to help in their efforts to streamline the curriculum had suggested the removal of televangelist Billy Graham, who was later added back by the board before the final vote, further emphasizing the “his” in history.Many Americans are expressing their outrage in the hopes that Secretary Clinton could be reinstated where she belongs: the history books.Texas State Board of Education wants to erase Hillary Clinton from history.So thats how they want to deal with their problems with her? Just erase her?So fucking stupid and petty. https://t.co/7YfEsOPL70— Faith Garland (@garland_faith) September 14, 2018WTF? TEXAS  Texas board votes to eliminate Hillary Clinton, Helen Keller from history curriculumhttps://t.co/Q1DRAAPWgM https://t.co/Q1DRAAPWgM— mozy1995 (@PatriziaScally) September 14, 2018It’s motivated an already mobilized Democratic party in Texas to look to the future with even more focus.The Texas State Board of Education voted today to remove Helen Keller and Hillary Clinton from social studies textbooks. Also, Barry Goldwater. The Texas SBOE is a gerrymandered, backwards mess and I hope we can get Texans voting not just for Beto but against these morons.— S. Reilly (@shrewandsnail) September 14, 2018When we retake the gov't we may consider replacing the Texas State Board of Education members who decided to delete important historical figures from the education of our children.Inserting Billy Graham & removing Hillary Clinton is the epitome of our differences in this nation. https://t.co/61lsCfBi8P— JerryLSF (@JerryLSF1) September 14, 2018Because, as this decision says to many, even two years after Hillary Clinton’s upsetting loss, people still preoccupy themselves with hating her.First hate mail about story on Hillary Clinton getting axed from history curriculum in Texas.#journalism pic.twitter.com/a1xu1G0w5T— Lauren McGaughy (@lmcgaughy) September 14, 2018The decision also pushes against what’s been a goal of Secretary Clinton throughout her storied career.	Liberal
Former President Jimmy Carter took aim at President Donald Trump during 37th annual Town Hall for first-year Emory University students. When asked what he would do differently if he were to become president again, he got a swipe in at the current occupant of the White House.The gist of it? Carter would do the opposite of everything Trump has done.Jimmy Carter: I'd change every Trump policy if I became president again https://t.co/5fECLNRKAw pic.twitter.com/vZ3DyZDObF— The Hill (@thehill) September 14, 2018“If I were foolish enough to feel I could be president again, I think the first thing I would do would be to change all of the policies that President Trump has initiated.”Carter, now 93, told students “I pray for him fairly regularly. If he answered my prayers, hed have to change a lot of things.”According to a local news report, this response drew a standing ovation from the audience.Carter and Trump are as close to polar opposites as men can get.Carter has devoted his life to humanitarian efforts since losing the 1980 presidential election to Republican Ronald Reagan. Even in his 90’s, Carter remains active building houses for the homeless across the world.Supporters of Carter on Twitter wished the 39th president was young enough to run again (he technically could, of course, but at 93, it simply won’t happen).https://twitter.com/cjillian0709/status/1040490194472886272Totally agree. Carter has a heart for humanity. but no way, time to stay retired.— Marty (@martynla1) September 14, 2018Dont get me wrong, I love Jimmy. But theres no way he could handle the Presidency at 93 — CJillian0709 (@cjillian0709) September 14, 2018Wish you could Jimmy— Just can't stay silent (@sortaskeptical) September 14, 2018So run again. Constitution allows it— Village Whisperer (@village_whisper) September 14, 2018THEY'LL ALL NEED TO BE CHANGED. SO MANY LAWS THAT PROTECTED US WERE SHUT DOWN.  TRUMP'S TALKING ABOUT ROLLING AUTO EMISSIONS BACK, USING COAL & FRACKING FOR OIL.TRUMP'S EVEN SAYING ASBESTOS IS GREAT. RUSSIA SELLS ASBESTOS WITH TRUMP'S FACE & TITLE ON THE LABEL. WE NEED CHANGES!— vivian williams (@vivartist14) September 14, 2018Trump is the complete opposite of Jimmy Carter.Trump is a hatefilled old man and seems obsessed with hurting the most vulnerable in american society. His policies not just hurt, but are killing people and profiteering from it.  His ignorance is on display to the world— Mindy (@mindycroz) September 14, 2018Carter was a president ahead of his time.he was so underappreciated in his time…..— MaryDerrickArt (@maryderrickart) September 14, 2018He warned the country about the dangers of climate change and overconsumption and even tried to set an example by putting solar panels on the White House. Despite nearly 11 millions jobs added during his four-year term, he lost his reelection bid after an oil shortage crippled the U.S. economy.Carter was asked what he sees as the greatest threat facing our generation.	Liberal
The news that Paul Manafort, President Donald Trump’s former campaign manager, had decided to accept a plea deal and cooperate with Special Counsel Robert Mueller rather than proceed with a second federal trial, prompted White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sandersto issue a statement which sounds as if it was dictated by the president himself.“This had absolutely nothing to do with the president or his victorious 2016 presidential campaign, Sanders said. It is totally unrelated.Not only does it reflect Trump’s repeated talking points about those who have been caught up in the Mueller probe so far, but also the addition of the unnecessary descriptor “victorious” in reference to his 2016 election win, seems to betray Trump’s well-reported insecurity about having lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton, and his constant need to remind people that he won.The word “victorious” is also rife with a certain irony: We know that Manafort has agreed to cooperate with Mueller, but we don’t know what he will reveal. Whatever hedoes reveal, though, would further cast the legitimacy of Trump’s presidencywhich the U.S. intelligence community unanimously agrees was orchestrated under the direction of Russian leader Vladimir Putinfurther into doubt.Sanders’s statement was widely criticized.Paul Manafort is scum, but according to @PressSec, his crimes had absolutely nothing to do with the supremely honorable and glorious president or his victorious and devine 2016 presidential campaign.— @kim (@kim) September 14, 2018With her usual candor, Sarah Sanders responds to news that Paul Manafort is now cooperating with Robert Muellers investigation of Trump: pic.twitter.com/Dmp9pqgWml— Mrs. Betty Bowers (@BettyBowers) September 14, 2018What Sarah Sanders is missing is that Manaforts proffer may likely lead them to crimes committed during the campaign, even though his plea is unrelated to the campaign. https://t.co/1UEori4eui— Smitty (@SmittyWrite) September 14, 2018Sarah Huckabee Sanders: #Manafort case has nothing to do w/#Trump.Has any WH press secretary discredited her profession more? https://t.co/Il4fNBrTMj— Gina InTheBurg (@GinaInTheBurg) September 14, 2018Yea, sure. Manafort accepted no money for the months he worked for Trump's campaign. Was at the infamous Trump Tower meeting & even got to get Pence on the ticket with Trump. But, nah, Sarah says it had nothing to do w her boss.— Debra Barcon (@dbarcon) September 14, 2018#Manafort #ManafortPleaDeal  Apparently Sarah Huckabee Sanders is trying to distance the White House from the Manafort plea deal by saying that all of the things that Manafort did wrong happened years before his association with the tRump campaign.WRONG— Riff1020 (@TheFaxMatter) September 14, 2018The president’s attorney, Rudy Giuliani, also insisted that Manafort’s plea deal had nothing to do with Trump.Once again, an investigation has concluded with a plea having nothing to do with President Trump or the Trump campaign, Giuliani said in a statement. The reason: the President did nothing wrong and Paul Manafort will tell the truth.Then, he, as Second Nexus pointed out earlier today, changed his tune, omitting his earlier assertion that Manafort would “tell the truth”:The president did nothing wrong.”That statement opened Giuliani to criticism as well:This nugget should not be overlooked. Expect Trump/Giuliani to begin to attack Manafort. But dont forget that Giuliani originally said that Manafort will tell the truth. https://t.co/c7NuEnGNws— Daniel S. Goldman (@danielsgoldman) September 14, 2018"the President did nothing wrong and Paul Manafort will tell the truth" Giuliani said. Within minutes of Giuliani issuing that statement, another Trump lawyer, Jay Sekulow, sent a "corrected statement"…but omitted the words "and Paul Manafort will tell the truth." pic.twitter.com/h7g9HpEEZk— Rex Kramer (@RexDangerSeeker) September 14, 2018Giulani is still playing the Trump game but until the Mueller investigation is complete no one can say Trump is not involved. It's not over till it's over.— Sheila Jones (@Harriso64709958) September 14, 2018A legal source who is supportive of the president and spoke to CNN on condition of anonymity said Trump’s team does not believe Manafort has anything significant to share about the President with Mueller.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s second son with first wife Ivana TrumpEric Trumpmade a few stops around the Fox News franchise recently. In each one, the Trump Organization VP touted accomplishments for his father, defended him against critics and attacked his detractors.Unlike his elder sister Ivanka, Eric Trump serves no official role in the Trump presidential administration. And unlike his elder brother Donald Jr., he remains not yet implicated in the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.Eric Trump is currently the best choice as an uninvolved spokesperson for his father. But in one Fox media appearance, the younger Trump got his facts checked live by the program host.While speaking Thursday on The Fox News Rundown podcast, the First Son challengedhost Dave Anthony to “name a quantifiable measure right now that we have in our society thats not better off than it was 20 months ago.”But the younger Trump fell victim to the same issue that plagues his father and older brother. The overuse of superlatives in the Trump males’ speech patterns trip them up time and time again when checked against actual facts.Everything favorable to them rates a description of biggest, most, best ever while anything relating to a rival is the smallest, least and worst. On the podcast, Eric Trump claimed:“Weve got the fastest-growing economy in the history of our country.”Anthony acknowledged the current strong consumer confidence, but corrected Trump’s over the top boast. The Fox News host stated:“However, when you say its the fastest-growing economy weve ever had, that isnt really the case, because economic growth of the low-4 percents is what we just have had in the last quarter and theres hope that that would continue.”“But you have to be fair, even during the Obama administration, while he did have some very low growth in quarters, there were times that he got over 5 percent in economic growth and over 4 percent more than once.”Could it be @FoxNews is exhibiting a consciousness of integrity? Ken McCafferty (@kenm77) September 14, 2018ITS CALCULATED, THOSE OCCASIONAL ACTS OF TRUTH COMING FROM FOX MINISTRY OF PROPAGANDA. They can see whats coming, & are prepared to throw Trump under the bus. AFTER it becomes pointless to continue to lie, & cover for him. Watch the worm turn as he falls. https://t.co/Jj8eK5jwY9 Irishgilly (@irishgilly2) September 14, 2018Rather than admit to the over-exaggeration, Trump stated hedoubted Anthonys facts but would “go back and check…very carefully.” The Fox News Rundownlater provided data for their listeners from theBureau of Economic Analysis.You can listen to the full podcast here.@FoxNews podcasts Tom Shillue interviewed Eric Trump who dutifully repeated nearly every lie his father routinely tells. He was fact-checked on one claim and told he was wrong. They shouldve fact-checked the entire interview.FOX News Rundown 9/13/2018https://t.co/er03Z0CxnT TimTheEnchantress (@t_enchanter) September 14, 2018Anthony’s facts proved correct while a Trump family member’s exaggerated claims were once again false. Eric Trump has yet to make a statement regarding his own findings.Lying runs in the family. https://t.co/KJ7hu2pJdH Pedro Rafael Rosado (@prrosado) September 14, 2018Only thing Eric is truthful about is this pic.twitter.com/AA7ZdHQLVO Kristian P. Crewe (@KPCrewe) September 14, 2018ERIC TRUMP LIED?!Thats almost as shocking as CYNTHIA NIXON losing the election!#LikeFatherLikeSonEric Trump Gets Humiliatingly Fact-Checked By Fox News Podcast Over Economy Lie – HuffPost https://t.co/JaFRqgxq0D RALPH CIRELLA (@RALPHsGEEKTIME) September 14, 2018The fact that Trump’s adult children are his surrogates is so telling… The epitome of dictators everywhere. Only family believe in the warped ideology… A Leonard (@AnneLeonardPta) September 14, 2018The nut doesn’t fall far from the tree. gmurr (@gmurr5) September 14, 2018Facts don’t matter to the trump family! russ (@docsavagemedwrt) September 14, 2018But why is lying so prevalent for the Trump’s?	Liberal
As the news broke Friday that Paul Manafort, former chairman of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, had entered into a cooperation agreement with Special Counsel Robert Mueller, Trump’s TV lawyer Rudy Giuliani insisted that it had nothing to do with Trump.Trump lawyer Giuliani asserts in statement after Manafort plea deal that the plea has "nothing to do with President Trump or the Trump campaign" and says that "the President did nothing wrong."— NBC Politics (@NBCPolitics) September 14, 2018“Once again, an investigation has concluded with a plea having nothing to do with President Trump or the Trump campaign,” Giuliani said in a statement. “The reason: the President did nothing wrong and Paul Manafort will tell the truth.”Not long after his initial statement, however, the former New York City mayor had changed his tune.“The president did nothing wrong,” Giuliani reiterated, omitting his previous assertion that Manafort would tell the truth.Giuliani in first statement after Manafort plea deal:"the President did nothing wrong and Paul Manafort will tell the truth. Giuliani in revised statement after Manafort plea deal:"the President did nothing wrong."— NBC Politics (@NBCPolitics) September 14, 2018Giuliani said earlier this week that Trump and Manafort had a joint defense agreement in place, but that a potential cooperation agreement between Manafort and Mueller wasn’t of concern because Trump, allegedly, did nothing wrong.Twitter’s reaction to Giuliani: ‘really, like, really?’https://twitter.com/FunWithFunPeop1/status/1040636929203728385Flipping isn't flipping.— Steven Paley (@stevenpaley1) September 14, 2018Looks like he will tell the truth, lol!— Tigger Too (@reader_jean) September 14, 2018The real statement should be: The President did nothing wrong because he is a narcissist without morals and never thinks he does anything wrong.— Bryn A. Bee  (@Brynabee521) September 14, 2018 pic.twitter.com/8JTTAENLRm— Toni Morgan (@tonimorg) September 14, 2018NICE TRY, RUDY! https://t.co/uzA00ok8Jk— mobilematt (@mobilematt) September 14, 2018Seems vaguely familiar. pic.twitter.com/DANGtLZNz5— Chef Tom Woodbury (@TheRealChefTom) September 14, 2018 pic.twitter.com/99RDrU1r87— John Swenson (@johnny_boy1029) September 14, 2018Perhaps Giuliani, like a biblical prophecy peddler, needs to make up a new date for when Mueller will wrap up his investigation.Giulani is still playing the Trump game but until the Mueller investigation is complete no one can say Trump is not involved. It's not over till it's over.— Sheila Jones (@Harriso64709958) September 14, 2018@RudyGiuliani should be calculating another day to wrap up the Mueller probe. So, Rudy… when is it now?— Citizen, Interrupted (@NYwonk) September 14, 2018The movie will be called, Nightmare on Pennsylvania Avenue.— St Stefan (@rasssalgc) September 14, 2018Hahahahaha— Maggie Fields (@magsster1) September 14, 2018Wow, Giuliani truly is inept.— Rob Gronewold (@RobGronewold) September 14, 2018https://twitter.com/kissmygrits89/status/1040637151652732928White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement thatManafort’s arrangement with Mueller “had absolutely nothing to do with the president or his victorious 2016 presidential campaign. It is totally unrelated.”JUST IN: White House after Manafort cooperation agreement with special counsel: "This had absolutely nothing to do with" President Trump or his campaign. "It is totally unrelated. – @kwelkernbc— NBC Politics (@NBCPolitics) September 14, 2018NBC News reported on Friday that Manafort“agreed to forfeit multiple properties and bank accounts and to cooperate with investigators, including participating in interviews, providing documents and testifying.”	Liberal
Thursday brought a record high and, with it, a new low.TheWashington Postreported that President Donald Trump made more than 5,000 “false or misleading statements” in 601 days as president. While that averages out to around 8.3 false statements a day, the president is actually lying more as his presidency continues, with his false statements averaging to 32 times a day of late. Recently, he reached a single day record of 125 lies in a total of 120 minutes.Though it may be a milestone, flummoxed Americans are hardly celebrating.for reference see Donald J. Trump with over 5000 documented lies only as president. But yeah. Except for the leftist regressive part. Is that a made up term? https://t.co/IC1eFr153O— Alan W. Silberberg (@IdeaGov) September 13, 2018.@RealDonaldTrump has now made more than 5,000 false or misleading claims as president, says the WashPost. They are accelerating in both frequency and brazenness – and politicians and men of the cloth who support him don't seem to mind the example he sets— West Wing Reports (@WestWingReport) September 14, 20185000.  Five thousand.  FIVE THOUSAND LIES.  That's almost 2 lies for every hurricane related death in Puerto Rico last year…— Artiki Artichoke (@ArtikiArtichoke) September 14, 20185000 falsehoods by @realDonaldTrump You've done enough. Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last? Have you left no sense of decency?Joseph Welch— dumptrump (@dumptrumpresist) September 13, 2018Donald Trump has told over 5,000 LIES since living in the White House. If you continue to Support and Respect a Pathological Liar like Donald Trump something is SERIOUSLY wrong with YOU. #MAGA#TrumpTrain #Trumptanic #PutinsPuppet #RussianHacking— Willie Lee Davis (@WLD01) September 13, 2018Even if his lies stop increasing and the president maintained a steady 8.3 a day, Donald Trump will have made around 12,118 false statements by the end of his first term.According to the Pulitzer Prize winning Politifact, nearly 70 percent of statements made by the president are false or misleading.Some of his “greatest hits” are so blatantly false, they’re insulting to the American people.	Liberal
The term chyron refers to the electronically generated caption superimposed on a television or movie screen. Most of us have seen them, but not known what they are called. The term originated in the 1970s from Chyron Corporation, the original creator.The blurbs flashed at the bottom of live news broadcasts help identify the program, a specific guest and any other pertinent information. Or in the case of Fox News and Tucker Carlson, they provide an opportunity to draw criticism for being childish and petty.Michael Avenattilawyer for the dancer, screenwriter, director and actress who prefers use of her stage name, Stormy Danielsagreed to appear on the Fox News program, Tucker Carlson tonight. Carlson, like many of the conservative commentators at President Donald Trump’s favorite network, frequently insults or denigrates Daniels or her lawyer.But Carlsonin an address directly into the camera lensstated how much he appreciated anytime someone agreed to appear on his program. Carlson then vowed not to refer to Avenatti with “a certain unflattering nickname.”Then, as that vow left Carlson’s mouth, the unflattering nickname appeared in the chyron below Avenatti and Carlson’s images. In all caps, it read:“CREEPY PORN LAWYER TALKS ABOUT PRESIDENTIAL RUN”While the appearance itself devolved into the sort of shouting match one would expect from the maturity level of the chyron, Avenatti still took to Twitter to call out Carlson for his lack of integrity. Carlson promised one thing, while the screen for his television show did the opposite of his on-air vow.The extent there was any doubt as to the lack of professionalism of @TuckerCarlson or @FoxNews before tonight, there is no longer. What happened with the chyron tonight was a disgrace. Complete garbage – trash television. A new low. Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 14, 2018Yes. After he told me that he was not going to engage in name calling. This is why so many people correctly conclude that @TuckerCarlson is a liar, just like Trump. https://t.co/y7ly56tIWy Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) September 14, 2018Many echoed Avenatti’s sentiments and tagged Carlson and Fox when they did.That’s why smart people don’t watch it Chief’s Wife (@sharondigi) September 14, 2018I’m just grateful that we aren’t subjected to it in Canada. It doesn’t air here because it doesn’t fall within our parameters of a ‘news’ show. How great is THAT?! ???? Valerie ???? (@ValeriaWalsh) September 14, 2018This is more accurate. Credit to @muh_thoughts pic.twitter.com/55BLJEg9Tx Steeb Shapiro (@SteebShapiro) September 14, 2018Avenatti had the guts to face off against the propaganda machine. The appearance accomplished two goals: 1) Exposing Fox as unfair and slimy 2) Calling their bluff and showing them how a strong, well prepared person can systematically dismantle the thin veneer of hypocrisy. Pdawg (@Pdawgpro) September 14, 2018his line “How can you even have a show” pretty much summed that up Coastal Elite (@PSampsonHowes) September 14, 2018Others went directly to Carlson and Fox News with their criticisms over the choice of chyron.	Liberal
Residents of Puerto Rico are overwhelmingly dissatisfied with how President Donald Trump handled recovery and restoration efforts following Hurricane Maria, which devastated the island last year and left thousands dead and countless displaced.In a Washington Post-Kaiser Foundation Poll released on Wednesday showed that 80 percent of Puerto Ricans – American citizens – hold a negative view of Trump’s management of the storm.A new Washington Post/Kaiser Family Foundation poll finds 80 percent of Puerto Ricans rate Trumps response to Hurricane Maria negatively. https://t.co/pv1lekmpoe— Washington Post PR (@WashPostPR) September 12, 2018Residents of the island gave negative reviews across the board, from Trump to their local governments.“How would you rate the job each has done in responding to Hurricane Maria?”Only 15 percent gave Trump a positive review; 80 percent said the president did a fair or poor job.Trump tweeted on Wednesday that he did an “unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico.” Trump said the U.S. territory is an “inaccessible island” (what?) with “very poor electricity” and that “we are ready for the big one that is coming.”We got A Pluses for our recent hurricane work in Texas and Florida (and did an unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico, even though an inaccessible island with very poor electricity and a totally incompetent Mayor of San Juan). We are ready for the big one that is coming!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2018Last month, a George Washington University study found that 2,975 people died as a result of the storm, a massive upward revision from the initial estimate of 64.On Thursday, as Hurricane Florence churned toward the Carolinas, Trump callously denied the study’s findings on Twitter aftertouting his leadership following the category 4 cyclone as “an incredible, unsung success.”3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico. When I left the Island, AFTER the storm had hit, they had anywhere from 6 to 18 deaths. As time went by it did not go up by much. Then, a long time later, they started to report really large numbers, like 3000…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018He blamed Democrats, claiming they somehow fudged the numbers to make him look bad.…..This was done by the Democrats in order to make me look as bad as possible when I was successfully raising Billions of Dollars to help rebuild Puerto Rico. If a person died for any reason, like old age, just add them onto the list. Bad politics. I love Puerto Rico!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018The Peurto Rican government also scored an unimpressive 25 percent approval for its handling of the storm. GovernorRicardo Rossell (D) got a 31 percent approval, the federal government 39 percent, and municipal governments scored the highest with 41 percent of respondents approving of their handling of the storm.“Fully 83 percent reported either major damage to their homes, losing power for more than three months, employment setbacks or worsening health problems, among other effects of the storm,” the Washington Post reported on Wednesday.Per the Washington Post:Two-thirds say the storm caused major or minor damage to their homes, and most of them say the structures have not been restored to their original condition.Ninety-three percent say their areas need more resources to repair roads and highways.Fifty percent say people in their households could not get enough water to drink, and 53 percent say they are still worried about the quality of water in their homes.More than 4 in 10 Puerto Ricans say their power was not restored until January or later  four months after the storm  and while nearly all residents now have access to working grid power, outages are common. More than 3 in 4 say they lost power for at least one hour in the previous month.Since Maria hit, 24 percent say their households borrowed money from friends or relatives to make ends meet, 26 percent had problems paying for food, 17 percent fell behind in paying their rent or mortgage, and 22 percent took on an extra job or worked extra hours to make ends meet.The poll did contain some good news. Ninety-nine percent of respondents said they have electric power (100 percent responded that the storm knocked out power), and 75 percent said life is either totally or somewhat back to normal.Half of those surveyed said they have an optimistic view of Puerto Rico’s future, and 88 percent said they had not lost a job since September 2017. Seventy-one percent said they had not had regular or overtime work hours cut, and 75 percent said their households had not experienced lost income either from a small business or from unpaid days of work.Conducted fromJuly 3 to August 29, 2018, the poll surveyed 1,500 adults aged 18 and over living in Puerto Rico when Maria hit last September. The margin of error is 3.5 percentage points.Overall, though, Puerto Ricans are not happy with Trump’s response to the storm, and they’ve vented their anger on Twitter.Trump creates political storm with false claim on Puerto Ricos hurricane death toll https://t.co/e9t9tszfDe— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) September 14, 2018Social media was filled with digs at the president.	Liberal
Melissa Francis, the co-host of “Outnumbered” on Fox News, criticized President Donald Trump’s comments disputing the death toll in Puerto Rico as a result of Hurricane Maria, saying his remarks are particularly “distasteful” coming, as they did, as Hurricane Florence batters the North Carolina coastline.Five states have declared a state of emergency … Ten million people in the path of Florence, said Francis.Instead, theyre fighting back and forth about what happened in Puerto Rico.It is incredibly distasteful. I dont know why the president weighed in on this one.“I understand the president’s frustration in the sense that he has worked very hard to help Puerto Rico … that the effort to help them has been herculean,” Francis continued. “But to take up on the issue of how many people are dead is so disgusting.”The entire panel agreed.Contributor Steve Hilton agreed with Francis, calling the president’s comments “unseemly,” and saying that this political argument is really unnecessary.What are we doing? Hilton asked.Outnumbered co-host Harris Faulkner concurred, saying that Trump’s claim cheapens us as a country.Katie Pavlich, a frequent contributor, said the president’s comments about Puerto Rico as Hurricane Florence threatens the Eastern Seaboardserved as a distractionfrom the preparedness for this current hurricane,” noting that while questions about how death tolls are determined and much responsibility must fall on local or federal governments are valid, they can be reserved for another time.Contributor Leslie Marshall also weighed in, saying that Trump should have not politicized the matter at all.You can never  left or right, no matter what office youre in  try and turn disaster into political victory, said Marshall. One of the things people are looking at  which they dont want to see in the president  is the self-accolades.The Fox News panel’s discussions comes after Trump, without providing evidence, denied that 3,000 people diedin the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico.3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico. When I left the Island, AFTER the storm had hit, they had anywhere from 6 to 18 deaths. As time went by it did not go up by much. Then, a long time later, they started to report really large numbers, like 3000…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018…..This was done by the Democrats in order to make me look as bad as possible when I was successfully raising Billions of Dollars to help rebuild Puerto Rico. If a person died for any reason, like old age, just add them onto the list. Bad politics. I love Puerto Rico!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018This follows Trumps claims earlier this week that Puerto Rico was one of the best and was an unsung success for the administration:Reporter: What lesson do we take from what happened in Puerto Rico? President Trump: I think that Puerto Rico was incredibly successful…I actually think that it was one of the best jobs that has ever been done. https://t.co/0B3li498Rg pic.twitter.com/gv2VMVD9Gj— CBS News (@CBSNews) September 11, 2018A George Washington University study published last monthrevised the islands official death toll to 2,975 people, many of whom died due to lack of aid, electricity, water, and access to medical care. The Trump administration shuffled its feet in response to the disaster and was savaged for offering aid remarkably quickly to the victims of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma by comparison.	Liberal
Heading into November’s midterm elections, Republican candidates face a question of whether to fully embrace President Donald Trump or to distance themselves from him. Two Florida GOP candidates decided a little distance was necessary from Trump’s recent claims concerning the aftermath of Hurricane Maria and Puerto Rico.Trump recently rejected the updated death toll in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria.3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico. When I left the Island, AFTER the storm had hit, they had anywhere from 6 to 18 deaths. As time went by it did not go up by much. Then, a long time later, they started to report really large numbers, like 3000…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018Governor Rick Scott, who is also running for U.S. Senate this year, tweeted a pointed disagreement with Trump:I disagree with @POTUS an independent study said thousands were lost and Gov. Rossell agreed. I’ve been to Puerto Rico 7 times & saw devastation firsthand. The loss of any life is tragic; the extent of lives lost as a result of Maria is heart wrenching. I’ll continue to help PR Rick Scott (@ScottforFlorida) September 13, 2018Scott terms out of the Governor’s office this year and so challenged incumbent Senator Bill Nelson for his Senate seat. But the Puerto Rican voting bloc in Florida may be critical in achieving that goal. Scott walks a tightrope between his Florida voters and the highest ranking member of the GOP, President Trump.Also looking to split from Trump is the man who hopes to take over from Scott in the Governor’s mansion, Republican Ron DeSantis. DeSantisa former member of the US House of Representativesfaces Democratic gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum in November.Instead of taking to Twitter, DeSantis issued a statement through his campaign which made no direct reference to the President.The candidate’s communications directorStephen Lawsonstated:“Ron DeSantis has always worked to help the Puerto Rican community, both on the Island and here in Florida. He doesnt believe any loss of life has been inflated. Ron is focused on continuing to help our Puerto Rican neighbors recover and create opportunities for those who have moved to Florida succeed.”DeSantis previously received an endorsement from Trump on Twitter.Congressman Ron DeSantis, a top student at Yale and Harvard Law School, is running for Governor of the Great State of Florida. Ron is strong on Borders, tough on Crime & big on Cutting Taxes – Loves our Military & our Vets. He will be a Great Governor & has my full Endorsement! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 22, 2018As did Governor Rick Scott.Rick Scott of Florida is doing a fantastic job as Governor. Jobs are pouring into the State and its economic health is better than ever before. He is strong on Crime, Borders, and loves our Military and Vets. Vote for Rick on Tuesday! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 27, 2018By Thursday afternoon, Trump had yet to respond to either Florida candidate’s statements, although one suspects he is likely to do so.	Liberal
Calfornia Governor Jerry Brown (D) and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg (I) kicked off the Global Climate Action Summit in San Francisco on Thursday, beginning with Brown predicting how historians would remember President Donald Trump.“When Trump says, in effect, We like more methane going into the air, that ishighly destructive,” Brown said. “Very highly destructive.”When asked how Trump will be remembered by history, the governor did not mince words.“A liar, criminal, fool,” Brown responded. “Pick your choice,” he added, referring to Trump’s destructive record on protecting the environment.When asked how historians would remember President Trump on climate change and the environment, Calif. Gov. Jerry Brown quipped: "A liar, criminal, fool. Pick your choice." https://t.co/fcGkacwUJn pic.twitter.com/jXh9MERQdy— KTVU (@KTVU) September 13, 2018Brown said that Trump’s easing of regulations on methane emissions was on the doorstep of “not only on insanity but criminality.”Californians concerned with the health of the planet were elated by Brown standing up to Trump.well summarised. King of Fake Tweets I would like to add.— Anjan Chatterjee (@anjchatt) September 13, 2018Thats my governor— YesImmaRayOfFuckingSunshine (@NancyTabak) September 13, 2018Right on Jerry!!— Kourt (@kmariemelen) September 13, 2018 pic.twitter.com/8YLdq9yFtJ— AVR (@ocburbs) September 13, 2018Could be all of them.— Lee Fink (@leekfink) September 13, 2018Governor Brown and Mayor Bloomberg are absolutely right.— Jean Stratford (@JeanSB613) September 13, 2018Short and very sweet. Nail right on the empty head.— EVIE MARLIN (@evie_marlin) September 13, 2018Damn.— Saint (@Saint78113982) September 13, 2018Some people thought Brown was being too generous.And those were the compliments!— boingboingbbeep (@boingboingbbeep) September 13, 2018And those are the compliments!  So glad we have a governor who is concerned about what is best for our state and not himself.— Joyce Brotman (@JoyceBrotman) September 13, 2018On Tuesday, the EPA announced its intent to repeal Obama-era methane rules, which were put in place to curb greenhouse gas emissions in an attempt to slow the effects of human-caused climate change.	Liberal
The family of the late Senator John McCain (R-AZ) said it was disappointed that McCain’s image was being used in Republican attack ads paid for by the National Republican Congressional Committee.The family is disappointed that Johns image is being weaponized this election cycle so soon after his passing, and they had hoped there would be a more appropriate amount of time for people to think about his final message before they began to politicize him, Rick Davis, a friend of the McCain family and a former top adviser to the senator,told Politico.A video shows McCain criticizing DemocratsAnn Kirkpatrick, running for a seat in Arizona, and Elissa Slotkin, running for a seat in Michigan.Speaking about Kirkpatrick, McCain says she wont oppose higher taxes. She wont oppose more federal spending. And she wont oppose increased debts that slow economic growth.Speaking about Slotkin, McCain sayseither doesnt know the truth, or are you not telling the truth.The ads also contradict the farewell message McCain, who died on August 25 after a long battle with glioblastoma, released through his aides.We weaken our greatness when we confuse our patriotism with tribal rivalries that have sown resentment and hatred and violence in all the corners of the globe, McCain wrote in his farewell note. We weaken it when we hide behind walls, rather than tear them down, when we doubt the power of our ideals, rather than trust them to be the great force for change they have always been.We are three-hundred-and-twenty-five million opinionated, vociferous individuals,” McCain added. “We argue and compete and sometimes even vilify each other in our raucous public debates. But we have always had so much more in common with each other than in disagreement.Many agreed with McCain’s family that the ads are inappropriate:Sad, pathetic attacks like these are working about as well as the desperate Schuette campaign ads. Theres a reason John McCains family is disappointed with the NRCCs garbage ads against Slotkin: https://t.co/nErIQiR4FL https://t.co/Gtr746Xy6n—   (@grahamdavis) September 13, 2018Remove the offensive PAC ads from @NRCC that feature dead John McCain targeting #AZ02. We voted for @Ann_Kirkpatrick in 2016.— Beluga  (@beluga_smile) September 13, 2018Could someone please tell me when simple civility died in America. And yes I know Donald plays a big role but he isn't alone.What the hell is wrong with the rest of America. It's heart breaking. The stories of hate, but now we have new level of low. The John McCain ads wow.— Leisure Time (@carlenelee10) September 13, 2018I swear, these GOP Trump Humpers would sell their mothers & daughters to get a win! They are despicable to use John McCain in any of their Ads! This is just awful!— TheGood,Bad&TheUgly (@growApair777) September 13, 2018John McCain's family slams GOP group for using footage of him in campaign ads.The GOP has lost its humanity and decency. https://t.co/CSnJyLxecU— (((Mark Russell))) (@MarkusJRussell) September 13, 2018In a piece published last week inUSA Today, the late senator’s wife, Cindy, offered how best to memorialize her husband:This was the essence of John McCains message to our nation: that we must join together, shaped by our deepest values of liberty, equal justice and respect for the dignity of all people, hardened by unwavering courage and integrity, and step into the arena to fight for a greater cause.John did this every day. Whether it was to demand the best possible leadership and support for our armed forces, or to empower freedom fighters against dictators around the world, or to demand that perpetrators of torture and human rights abuses be punished, or to make sure our native American communities are treated with dignity and respect. John McCain fought for others every day of his life, whether he was wearing a uniform or standing on the floor of the U.S. Senate.	Liberal
President Donald Trump likes Twitter. The social media tool is so entwined with the 45th President that both Reddit and the website Trump Twitter Archivetrack certain aspects of the President’s tweets.Both sites feature the premise that there is always a Trump tweet to relate to any current event or presidential tweet.The President’s current flurry of tweets seek to defend his administration’s performance in response to Hurricane Maria hitting Puerto Rico in 2017which Trump characterized as “one of the best jobs ever done.” A year after Maria, parts of Puerto Rico still remain without reliable electricity or safe drinking water.The Twitter sleuths went on the hunt and quickly found a Trump tweetseveral actuallycriticizing hurricane recovery efforts by his predecessor. On November 6, 2012, Trump posted:“The federal gov. has handled Sandy worse than Katrina. There is no excuse why people don’t have electricity or fuel yet.”The federal gov. has handled Sandy worse than Katrina. There is no excuse why people don’t have electricity or fuel yet. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 6, 2012Trump referred to citizens in his areaNew York and New Jersey. But was there any truth to his claim?Hurricane Sandy affected Trump’s area beginning on October 29. New York utilities restored power to 95 percent of customers 13 days after peak outage reports. New Jersey reached 95 percent in 11 days and West Virginia in 10 days after Sandy in 2012.Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005 and Ike in 2008 resulted in longer outages in Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi and Florida. The longest stretch to reach 95 percent power restoration since 2004 belonged to Louisiana after Hurricane Katrinawhere utilities hit 75 percent after 23 days before Hurricane Rita hit.Republican President George W. Bush took office in January 2001 and left office in January 2009. In 2017, President Trump shattered Bush’s hurricane recovery statistics. The official record states it took the Trump administration 328 days to get power restored to 95 percent of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria.But Trump’s dig at the lack of power for people in his home area was not the only shot he took at President Barack Obama during Sandy’s aftermath. The Twitter sleuths at the subReddit “Trump Criticizes Trump” found several others.The subReddit’s description reads “Trump Criticizes Trump: A Portrait of Presidential Hypocrisy. For every Trump action there is a Trump tweet criticizing that action.” Regarding hurricanes and their aftermath, Trump stated:Hurricane is good luck for Obama again- he will buy the election by handing out billions of dollars. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 30, 2012Interestingly, the hurricane may now be a disaster for Obama’s reelection because of his grandstanding. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 2, 2012How about President Obama fixing the gasoline situation instead of taking photo ops in the destruction. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 2, 2012President Trump took heavy criticism for his own purported grandstanding and photo ops in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria as shown in the following reactions on his recent Twitter posts or in reaction to his public statements.	Liberal
As a legendary country singer, multiple-Grammy winner Willie Nelson inevitably has a strong conservative following.That didn’t stop the ever-authentic Nelson from announcing his support for Democrat Beto O’Rourke over Republican incumbent Ted Cruz in the hotly contested Texas Senate race:My wife Annie and I have met and spoken with Beto and we share his concern for the direction things are headed. Beto embodies what is special about Texas, an energy and an integrity that is completely genuine.After Nelson announced that he’d be headlining a rally for O’Rourke, many of his Republican fans flew into a rage.@WillieNelson Willie you just lost a life long fan for supporting someone like Beto Hes not what Texas needs.  Very disappointed in you.— Bellagio Guy (@BigGeorgeSATX) September 13, 2018Disappointed in Willie! I wish he would take Dolly Partons stand & refuse to go political. Seems like a no brainerDolly keeps  of her fans, Willie definitely lost some of his— DeeAnn (@DeeAnn7) September 13, 2018I've always been a fan of Willie/Waylon and me mentality. When Willie decided "Pot" was the ground he wanted to stake his flag in,he lost me. His tax evasion issue, kind of brought me back to his side I thought it was over taxation. Then he's performing for a socialist? C'mon man— Kevin Stone (@KevinSt85037715) September 13, 2018What a shame!! Willie you just lost over half of your fans!!#Cruz2018 #KeepTexasRed #MAGA pic.twitter.com/ZTymoscRVn— Texas Julie (@RuralswtxLady) September 13, 2018Forgive Willie Nelson, hes lost a few brain cells smoking way too much weed.— steve (@Its_hammrtime) September 13, 2018No one, not even pot head Willie can convince me to vote for a damn Demorat. He is no more Texan than the next guy. So kiss my ass Willie Nelson.Go ahead and headline rally for Beto O'Rourke. Your done in Texas. You suck ass liberal. https://t.co/t2dR8qLOVL— The Gepstur (@TheGepstur) September 13, 2018Despite the outcry from embittered Republicans, some speculate that Nelson’s endorsement could be a huge factor in a highly competitive campaign.Willie might close the small gap Beto has behind Cruz, and help turn Texas purple. Cruz is the most disliked man in the Senate so his DC colleagues will not miss him. Cruz has all the charm of a cobra. Texas needs better, like Beto! https://t.co/5Yp6pvsMKF— John Dean (@JohnWDean) September 13, 2018Others are pointing out that this endorsement should hardly come as a surprise.	Liberal
In two tweets issued earlier today, President Donald Trump, without providing evidence, denied that 3,000 people diedin the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico.3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico. When I left the Island, AFTER the storm had hit, they had anywhere from 6 to 18 deaths. As time went by it did not go up by much. Then, a long time later, they started to report really large numbers, like 3000…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018…..This was done by the Democrats in order to make me look as bad as possible when I was successfully raising Billions of Dollars to help rebuild Puerto Rico. If a person died for any reason, like old age, just add them onto the list. Bad politics. I love Puerto Rico!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018This follows Trump’s claims earlier this week that Puerto Rico was “one of the best” and was an “unsung” success for the administration:Reporter: What lesson do we take from what happened in Puerto Rico? President Trump: I think that Puerto Rico was incredibly successful…I actually think that it was one of the best jobs that has ever been done. https://t.co/0B3li498Rg pic.twitter.com/gv2VMVD9Gj— CBS News (@CBSNews) September 11, 2018How does the President justify this claim?First by citing Puerto Rico’s “island nature” and then by claiming:“And when the storm hit, they had no electricity  essentially before the storm,” Trump said. “And when the storm hit, that took it out entirely.”So when House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) was asked to comment on Trump’s claim that 3,000 people were not in fact killed as a result of the hurricane, instead of condemning Trump for the dubious and offensive claim, he instead took the President’s lead and gave him a pass for the very same reasons.While Ryan acknowledged that he “has no reason to dispute” the official death toll attributed to Hurricane Maria’s devastation in Puerto Rico, he echoed Trump’s suggestion that the island’s inaccessibility resulted in such a great loss of human life.“Casualties dont make a person look bad, so I have no reason to dispute these numbers,” Ryan told reporters when asked about Trump’s tweet blaming Democrats for the death toll.“Its an isolated island that lost its infrastructure and power for a long time.”More troublingly, Ryan, while repeating Trump’s claim that the island is “isolated,” suggested that the administration could not bear the responsibility for the disaster, saying, “Ill just say what I just said, which is there is no reason to dispute these numbers. This is a devastating storm that hit an isolated island. And thats really no ones fault. Its just what happened.”You can watch his comments below:"Casualties don't make a person look bad": House Speaker Paul Ryan responds to President Trump's tweet claiming "3,000 people did not die" in hurricanes that devastated Puerto Rico last year. https://t.co/dYRP5myUSO pic.twitter.com/U0972eSuMA— CBS News (@CBSNews) September 13, 2018Ryan was soon savaged for his response, which Ronald Brownstein, a senior editor forThe Atlantic, described as “the perfect encapsulation of [Ryan’s]utter abandonment of oversight role & any effort to hold Trump accountable.”The idea that the huge death toll on Puerto Rico is "really no one's fault" rather than an urgent question for Congress to investigate through oversight is the perfect encapsulation of @SpeakerRyan utter abandonment of oversight role & any effort to hold Trump accountable https://t.co/AyndrkWuxi— Ronald Brownstein (@RonBrownstein) September 13, 2018Paul Ryan accepts the accuracy of the massive death toll in Puerto Rico but doesn't want a serious congressional inquiry into the causes of that humanitarian disaster.— Ned Resnikoff (@resnikoff) September 13, 2018Don't lose sight of this when Paul Ryan and others dispute Trump's lies about the Hurricane Maria death toll: congressional Republicans did nothing to investigate the deaths of 3,000 Americans https://t.co/esHtjTy3Dh— Kiley Kroh (@kileykroh) September 13, 2018Paul Ryan claims that the deaths in Puerto Rico were no ones fault. But most of the deaths were due to the federal governments failed response to the hurricane. That *is* Trumps fault. https://t.co/ueu18jTKg7— Renato Mariotti (@renato_mariotti) September 13, 2018Steve Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas Austin School of Law, pointed out that claims that the island is “isolated” or “inaccessible” are grossly inaccurate. Puerto Rico is not only closer to the mainland than Hawaii, it is also roughly the size of Connecticut and has a population greater than many of the 50 states, including the mainland.Leaving aside why @SpeakerRyan would have "reason to dispute these numbers" if they _did_ make @realDonaldTrump look bad, for the record, Puerto Rico:1) Is closer to the mainland than Hawaii;2) Is the size of Connecticut; &3) Has a population greater than 21 of the 50 states. https://t.co/irQbhkU6nl— Steve Vladeck (@steve_vladeck) September 13, 2018Gary Alexander, a Ph.D. student in the History Department of the University of Kansas, pointed out that, contrary to both Trump’s and Ryan’s claims that the island is isolated, Puerto Rico “has three international airports, a former naval air station, and a major seaport.”"Casualties don't make a person look bad." Yeah, they do."Isolated." Puerto Rico has three international airports, a former naval air station, and a major seaport. Paul Ryan is just as amoral and cruel as Trump. https://t.co/1U2WkoqHwc— Gary Alexander (@grylxndr) September 13, 2018Additionally, The Puerto Rico Tourism Company, a San Juan promoter for tourism on the island, reported earlier this year that tourism is on the rebound, with many hotels “at or near 100% occupancy during the holiday weekend that began on March 30” for those celebrating Easter, Passover, and spring break vacations.	Liberal
JP Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon drew the ire of President Donald Trump Thursday morning after Dimon suggested he could beat Trump in a hypothetical 2020 presidential bid.President Trump hits back at JP Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, belittling the banking chief as a "nervous mess" after Dimon had boasted he was smarter than the president and could beat him if he chose to run. https://t.co/KVsf7GTcud— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 13, 2018Dimon was speaking at an event at his company’s Manhattan headquarters on Wednesday, where he said he was “smarter” than Trump and could easily defeat him.“I think I could beat Trump,” Dimon said. “Because I’m as tough as he is, I’m smarter than he is.”Dimon hinted that he was tougher than the president, saying that Trump “could punch me all he wants, it wouldn’t work with me. I’d fight right back.”The 62-year-old CEO and megadonor to the Democratic Party also took a swipe at Trump’s wealth: “And by the way, this wealthy New Yorker actually earned his money,” Dimon said. “It wasn’t a gift from Daddy,” referring to the millions of dollars Trump inherited from his real estate developer father Fred.Dimon quickly walked back his comments, however, and enthusiastically denied any intention of running for president.“I should not have said it. I’m not running for President,” he said. “Proves I wouldn’t make a good politician. I get frustrated because I want all sides to come together to help solve big problems.”In his first tweet of the day on Thursday, Trump fired back at Dimon as only Trump can, chiding Dimon as “a poor public speaker” and “nervous mess.”“The problem with banker Jamie Dimon running for President is that he doesnt have the aptitude or smarts & is a poor public speaker & nervous mess – otherwise he is wonderful,” Trump said in a pre-dawn tweet. “Ive made a lot of bankers, and others, look much smarter than they are with my great economic policy!”The problem with banker Jamie Dimon running for President is that he doesnt have the aptitude or smarts & is a poor public speaker & nervous mess – otherwise he is wonderful. Ive made a lot of bankers, and others, look much smarter than they are with my great economic policy!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018Twitter jumped to Dimon’s defense, with many agreeing that he is probably smarter than Trump.I am quite sure that Dimon is a lot smarter than Trump!— lucielocket51 (@HorsnellLucie) September 13, 2018Im not a fan of Dimon, but I do think he is a tad smarter than Trump— Izzabella (@LibraryLadyNJ) September 13, 2018If Trump had to answer to public company shareholders he would fail miserably for freelancing communications, making at least one misstatement per day and being a giant ass to all constituents.  Dimon could run circles around Trump in all departments.  Run, Jamie.— Vance Meyer (@middle1dweller) September 13, 2018Agreed, he's smarter! Whether #Dimon would make a good President is an entirely different question. Although after Trump, an inanimate object may fare better as the POTUS, at least an inanimate object won't tweet, lie or tweet lies.— KJ (@PrissyKFJ) September 13, 2018Trump has gone on bankruptcy dozens of times, he claims to be a billionaire and he's not. That's one of the reasons why he refuses to show his taxes. Jamie Dimon, obviously is smarter than Trump.— Eva C (@monkeyeva51) September 13, 2018Trump himself wasn’t shown much mercy.	Liberal
Attorneys General from 19 states and the District of Columbia filed a lawsuit against Betsy DeVos and her Department of Education (DoE) after she ordered delays for student borrowerdefense rules slated for July 1, 2017. On Wednesday, the federal court ruled against the Trump administration official.U.S. District Court Judge Randolph Moss ruled in favor of the Attorneys General. In his ruling, he stated:“The Department [of Education]s arguments to the contrary are unpersuasive… The Court, accordingly, concludes that the Departments rationale for issuing the [delay] is arbitrary and capricious.”The judge also characterized DeVos’s actions at the DoE as “unlawful” and “procedurally invalid.” The rules, created during the Obama administration sought to protect students from predatory colleges.The Obama administration expanded borrower defense rules based on an “unprecedented influx” of fraud allegations concerning the for-profit secondary school chain Corinthian Colleges. The online chain shut down in 2016 facing multiple charges of fraud.Other predatory schools likeITT Tech and Trump University also promised much but delivered little while signing up students for loans and federal financial aid then collecting the money and running. Both schools shut their doors and in some cases paid hefty settlements for defrauding students.Why would #BetsyDeVos work to make it easier to defraud students with #StudentLoans? Did #Trump tell her he wanted to re-start #TrumpUniversity? She deserves an honorary MS. Masters in Stupidity. #Resist https://t.co/ruCxSShgvQ via @bpolitics Bob Krause (@KrauseForIowa) September 13, 2018At the time of her decision to delay the student protections, DeVos called the rules a “muddled process thats unfair to students and schools.” Much of the Department’s case hinged on rules being too hard to understand in the 8 months provided to become familiar with them.But the judges ruling cited that inability by some to understand what others easily understood could not justify a delay in implementation.Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healeyone of the plaintiffs in the suitcelebrated the news on Twitter.#BREAKING We just won our case against Betsy DeVos for illegally delaying protections for students cheated by predatory for-profit schools. #BorrowerDefenseRule pic.twitter.com/wbqHH4DYMc Maura Healey (@MassAGO) September 12, 2018A federal court agreed that the actions of @usdoegov are not only wrong, they are illegal.It is time for the #BorrowerDefenseRule to go into effect and give thousands of students the relief theyve been waiting for. https://t.co/UIdVRvSzYv Maura Healey (@MassAGO) September 12, 2018For years weve fought for needed protections for student borrowers. No matter what this administration throws at us, we will continue to stand up for students and families in Massachusetts. #BorrowerDefenseRule Maura Healey (@MassAGO) September 12, 2018Betsy DeVos tried to take away important protections that kept students from getting ripped off by predatory for-profit schools. So we took her to court. And we won. #mapoli pic.twitter.com/fNvYXn8RBC Maura Healey (@maura_healey) September 13, 2018Todays decision in federal court is a victory for every family defrauded by a predatory for-profit school and a total rejection of President Trump and Betsy DeVoss agenda to cheat students and taxpayers. #BorrowerDefenseRule https://t.co/3WPxhcewrK Maura Healey (@MassAGO) September 12, 2018Other plaintiffs in the case joined her in celebrating.BREAKING: We won our case challenging the Education Department’s illegal delay of the borrower defense rule  a delay that placed students at the mercy of predatory for-profit colleges. The judge called Devos’ actions unlawful” and “procedurally invalid.” https://t.co/qA9agHqlvq pic.twitter.com/rL1fnW8dGz Public Citizen (@Public_Citizen) September 12, 2018#BREAKING: A huge win for students and taxpayers. The court decided in favor of CA, plus 18 states and DC in our lawsuit against @usedgov. Ruling @BetsyDevosEDs delay of borrower defense as unlawful.https://t.co/oKZWtqmkNf Xavier Becerra (@AGBecerra) September 12, 2018Students cheated by deceptive for-profit schools deserve debt relief. It’s on our leaders to push back & hold such institutions accountable. @BetsyDeVosED‘s @usedgov tried to rescind the ‘Borrower Defense Rule’ – we just stopped her.https://t.co/TCyBwzkhWg AG Josh Shapiro (@PAAttorneyGen) September 12, 2018#BREAKING: Our coalition of AGs just won our suit to stop @BetsyDeVosEd and the Trump Department of Ed from delaying protections for students who have been defrauded by predatory for-profit colleges.If you’re cheated by a school, you deserve to be protected. We have your back. pic.twitter.com/kE4oyXQsO4 NY AG Underwood (@NewYorkStateAG) September 12, 2018While observers praised the victory and raised other issues with DeVos’ leadership at the Department of Education and with predatory colleges.	Liberal
In two tweets, President Donald Trump, without providing evidence, denied that 3,000 people diedin the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. He also claimed that the “really large numbers” that news outlets have reported are the work of a Democrat-led conspiracy.“Bad politics. I love Puerto Rico!” the president said, in part.3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico. When I left the Island, AFTER the storm had hit, they had anywhere from 6 to 18 deaths. As time went by it did not go up by much. Then, a long time later, they started to report really large numbers, like 3000…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018…..This was done by the Democrats in order to make me look as bad as possible when I was successfully raising Billions of Dollars to help rebuild Puerto Rico. If a person died for any reason, like old age, just add them onto the list. Bad politics. I love Puerto Rico!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 13, 2018The president earned a harsh rebuke from San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz, who criticized him in several tweets.Advocates, she said, “deserve better than this.”Thousands of americans, our diaspora & latinos that came to PR to care for us and become advocates for our people deserve better than this. pic.twitter.com/OPaPx6oo1d— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 13, 2018She called him “delusional, paranoid, and unhinged from any sense of reality.”Simply put: delusional, paranoid, and unhinged from any sense of reality.  Trump is so vain he thinks this is about him. NO IT IS NOT. pic.twitter.com/K96H5O3NKM— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 13, 2018She also took the president to task for his claim that the death toll from the hurricane is a conspiratorial ploy orchestrated by Democrats.Damn it: this is NOT about politics this was always about SAVING LIVES. pic.twitter.com/SjwywKN3Jh— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 13, 2018And that wasn’t all.This is what denial following neglect looks like: Mr Pres in the real world people died on your watch. YOUR LACK OF RESPECT IS APPALLING! pic.twitter.com/OJEDqT74Sr— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 13, 2018Mr President no matter how much you try your true colors come shining  thru. Unfortunately you just cant help it. You just cant get it. pic.twitter.com/nWzznCsCag— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 13, 2018Mr Trump you can try and bully us with your tweets BUT WE KNOW OUR LIVES MATTER. You will never take away our self respect. Shame on you! pic.twitter.com/KlMzClvzkA— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 13, 2018Others joined Cruz in expressing their anger and disbelief.Two weeks ago myself and my friends waiting for our storm in Hawaii, before it broke Frma was here, funds being designated. And the storm dissipated.We wondered in awe how can we be treated so differently when a storm hasnt even done major damage.— (((Mary Burgess))) (@BurgessPoet) September 13, 2018This does not matter to him Mayor what matters to him is the 30% of his base keep gtg gaslighted & brainwashed by him that's the only thing that's important to him— RON'NETTA (8-3) (@REMILOVESPORTS) September 13, 2018I thought his tweet was a joke! Ignorance and narcissism are a very bad combination. Youve done a tremendous job bringing to light what was really happening in #LaIslaDelEncanto #PuertoRico. Thank you and Brava!— Gabriela Cora, MD, MBA (@drgabycora) September 13, 2018He's never heard the word diaspora, of course, and is primarily focused at this moment and protecting only gerrymandered areas of North Carolina.True patriots were repulsed by his attacks on you, then and now.And that's most of America.—  Mike (@BuffaloBearGuy) September 13, 2018Trump does not care for those with brown skin, or have an accent, or may not speak english.He may not even consider Puerto Ricans as Americans.— FreakWhisperer (@burningmanmike) September 13, 2018Yesterday, Cruz slammed the presidentafter he claimed his administrations efforts in Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria is one of the best jobs that has ever been done.If he thinks the death of 3,000 people os [sic] a success God help us all, Cruz said in part.Success? Federal response according to Trump in Puerto Rico a success? If he thinks the death of 3,000 people os a success God help us all.— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 11, 2018She added: Can you imagine what he thinks failure looks like?Pres Trump thinks loosing 3,000 lives is a success. Can you imagine what he thinks failure looks like?— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 12, 2018Trump responded soon after, giving his administration A Pluses for our recent hurricane work in Texas and Florida, adding that they did an unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico. He also called Cruz incompetent.We got A Pluses for our recent hurricane work in Texas and Florida (and did an unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico, even though an inaccessible island with very poor electricity and a totally incompetent Mayor of San Juan). We are ready for the big one that is coming!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2018	Liberal
Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) appears to be getting desperate in the hotly contested race for his seat.Cruz made an ad buy during Stephen Colbert’s interview with his opponent, Democratic Congressman Beto O’Rourke, on Wednesday’s edition ofThe Late Show.And Colbert ripped Cruz to shreds for it.Right before O’Rourke sat down with Colbert,The Late Show host gave the audience the low down on O’Rourke and his fiercely progressive campaign.U.S. Senate candidate @BetoORourke is on the Late Show! #LSSC pic.twitter.com/FsWJR2MXtk— The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) September 13, 2018Colbert noted how scared Cruz and his campaign must be by buying ads to counter O’Rourke’s interview, as recent polling has shown the race to be a virtual dead heat. In Texas. TEXAS!!!!!“Beto is running in Texas against incumbentSenator and man whose campaign staff is definitely watching this show right now, Ted Cruz, because it is close, which is scaring Republicans,” Colbert said, particularly because Cruz has recruited President Donald Trump to help his campaign.“You know its bad when you need backup from a man with a 36-percent approval rating,” Colbert quipped. “Their backup plan is a celebrity endorsement from the herpes virus,” he joked.“Heres how scared Ted Cruz is of Beto ORourke,” Colbert continued. “He bought ads on my show tonight to counter his interview.”Colbert gave examples of attack ads run by Cruz against O’Rourke, many of which were personal and did not go over as well as Cruz had hoped.In one ad, Cruz shared a picture of O’Rourke from his days in a punk rock band, which at the time made the internet swoon. “Maybe Beto cant debate Ted Cruz because he already had plans,” the ad said.“Yes, his plans were being smoking hot in a naughty but approachable sort of way, like your best friends older brother who smells like weed and listens to Radiohead,” Colbert said. “Read us your poems, Beto!”In another ad, Cruz shared clips of O’Rourke using the F-word, which Colbert said is clearly not the behavior of a future Senator.“Beto is a dirty-minded potty mouth,” Colbert said. “You must protect the values of Texas, and vote for the man wholikes threesome porn on Twitter.” Cruz’s Twitter account has some… interesting follows attached to it.O’Rourke then bullet-pointed his progressive stances on issues, including his opposition to Trump’s proposed border wall with Mexico, which Cruz, a naturalized American citizen from Canada, supports.“The people of Texas are more than a match for President Trump or for politics as usual,” O’Rourke said."We don't need a wall" says Texas Senate candidate @BetoORourke in his conversation with @StephenAtHome on tonight's #LSSC. Tune in at 11:35/10:35c for the full interview! pic.twitter.com/lBmK46g1L3— The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) September 13, 2018“People are coming out at this moment of truth, O’Rourke, widely looked upon as a rising star in the Democratic Party, said. “Theyre going to help us decide as a country, are we a nation of walls? Will we ban all Muslims or all people of one religion? Will we describe the press as the enemy of the people? Will we take kids away from their parents when theyre trying to claim asylum, fleeing from the most brutal countries in this hemisphere, if not the planet?”.@BetoORourke strongly opposes Trump's border wall plans in Texas. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/cgOosCvq9v— The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) September 13, 2018O’Rourke further emphasized the need for progressive changes in Texas and the United States.“Or are we going to be defined by our ambitions, the big things that we want to do, going from the least-insured state in the country to the one that leads on universal, guaranteed, high-quality health care for everyone?” he continued. “A state that values public education and pays their teachers accordingly and allows them to teach to a child instead of a standardized test? And this diverse state, the most diverse city in the country, Houston, Texas, could we lead on rewriting our immigration laws in our own image, reflecting our experience? We can do all of those things.”O’Rourke’s summation? He’s not running ‘against’ anything.“We are not running against anyone or anything or any other political party,” ORourke concluded. “We are running for this country, and I am so excited to be a part of it.”Cruz, who is so easily trollable, got what was coming to him on Twitter.Is Cruz the Zodiac Killer? Probably not, but who cares, it’s hilarious.Bye bye Zodiac— Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) September 13, 2018Kids love Ted.You can never count out a guy who has mad love like this…T-Drizzle ya'll…free hugs and kisses…for those that want one…eeewwwwwww… pic.twitter.com/p1MG1KbXqJ— AV8 (@AV8intheblue) September 13, 2018Just like these animals love whatever these things are they are smelling.The new baby smooching … pic.twitter.com/8OGC1PfHfv— My Halo Broke  (@AB_Owl) September 13, 2018Never forget when Cruz, after a nasty primary campaign against Trump in 2016, worked a phone bank for Trump. pic.twitter.com/uuCuEd3c14— Amparo (@amparocoker) September 13, 2018Then there was Cruz trying to play basketball with Jimmy Kimmel, which resulted in Cruz getting hit in the crotch with a basketball.Last time I checked, @TedCruz was pretending to win at basketball with @jimmykimmel. Thank God for @BetoORourke and his substantive platform. The choice is clear for #Texas. #BetOnBeto— #Ojeda2020 #AllTheWay @EJRHOU  #BeTheTruth (@EjrHou) September 13, 2018It was used in a mashup of O’Rourke skateboarding – perfectly.A lot of people suggested someone use the Ted Cruz/basketball footage in a Beto ad.So we did…pic.twitter.com/BBmsX2F3FJ— jordan (@JordanUhl) September 10, 2018Beto has impressive support on social media.	Liberal
Fox News host and telephone therapist to President Donald Trump was asked on Wednesday when he thought President Trump would fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller. His answer seemed to betray a knowledge that such a firing is fairly imminent.Sean Hannity says Donald Trump will fire Robert Mueller after Hurricane Florence https://t.co/rxnTfAffZl pic.twitter.com/DFJzEoPDc8— Newsweek (@Newsweek) September 12, 2018“Listen, I think all of that’s going to happen,” Hannity told a caller into his radio show on Wednesday. He added that Mueller would be fired “sooner rather than later,” perhaps after Hurricane Florence had come and gone. Hannity acknowledged that the approaching hurricane should remain the administration’s top priority, and that Mueller’s firing would return to the top of Trump’s to do list once it had passed.Below is the transcript, courtesy of Media Matters:CALLER: Trump has got so many people in his corner ready to fight, anything he can turn over or declassify, I can’t understand why he wouldn’t do it. What’s he waiting for, one of his kids to get indicted or something?And if they do get a special counsel to look into the investigators, can it be stopped by the Democrats if they take the House, and/or Senate?And something else I thought about, if there — for the investigation, the special counsel, to begin with, there was supposed to be a crime designated. If there’s no crime designated, then can’t Trump put an end to it?SEAN HANNITY (HOST): Yeah, I think —CALLER: “30 — 30 days, name the crime, or I’m putting an end to it,” put them on their heels.HANNITY: Listen, I think all of that’s gonna happen. I think it’s gonna happen sooner than later.I don’t think it’s going to happen on a week where 9/11 happened, it’s — to me, there’s other things that we — are more important to talk about, and I don’t think with a big, massive hurricane about to hit the East coast of the United States, that looks like the real deal, that anybody’s going to be focused on that. We’ve got to worry about our neighbors right now. We got to roll up our sleeves and be prepared to help out the people of South Carolina, North Carolina and elsewhere. That’s where our focus is.But afterwards, I would — I would expect that he will do that.Though Trump routinely refers to the investigation into possible collusion between his presidential campaign and Russia as a “witchhunt,” dozens of indictments have been filed, and multiple plea deals have been struck.“Those close to Trump see Hannity as an unofficial adviser to the president, which is pretty terrifying. The bottom line is, during the heat of the campaign when relationships are forged, [Hannity] was always there, offering good advice, in person and on television, former deputy Trump campaign manager David Bossie toldThe Post. “The president sees [Hannity] as an incredibly smart and articulate spokesman for the agenda.”When it comes to the possibilityof Trump firing Mueller, which he does not have the legal authority to do, at least directly, Hannity thinks Trump should do it anyway, because of reasons. Trump would have to fire Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein (assuming Rosenstein refuses an order to do so). Trump would alsoface an uphill climb in getting the Senate to approve a new AG.Twitter is bracing for quite the crisis.	Liberal
President Donald Trump began an all out assault against respected investigative journalist and author Bob Woodward in advance of his latest bookFear: Trump in the White House. Other members of the family and of the Trump administration soon joined in.The latest to try to discredit Woodward is the President’s second son with first wife Ivana Trump, Eric Trump. He currently serves asExecutive Vice President of the Trump Organization.But people paid less attention to the younger Trump son’s claims of unfairness to his father than they did to the phrasing he chose to use. In an appearance on Fox & Friends Wednesday morning, Eric Trump stated Woodward’s book was popular only because itmade his father look bad.And, Trump posited, news media featured stories on the book because of how it portrays the President, therefore that proves Fear portrays the President poorly just to garner airtime. While the twisted logic makes little sense, it was what Trump said next that turned heads. He stated:“Itll mean you sell three extra books, you make three extra shekels, at the behest of the American people, at the behest of our country, thats doing a phenomenal job by every quantifiable metric. Is that really where we are?”Watch an excerpt of the Fox & Friends Trump appearance here.ERIC TRUMP attacks Democrats: “Anti-law enforcement, high taxes, and elimination of plastic straws is not a message that will win in November.”ERIC TRUMP then dismisses WOODWARD book as “sensational nonsense” he wrote “to make 3 extra shekels.” pic.twitter.com/GuTXMpPLHG Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) September 12, 2018Eric Trump is not Jewish, nor is Bob Woodward. Why use the term “shekels?” Why not dollars or a slang term for United States currency, like bucks?The shekel is the official currency of Israel. It also has roots in ancient times. Keegan Hankes, who helps track hate groups as a senior research analyst at the Southern Poverty Law Centers Intelligence Project says the term also gets used as an anti-semitic slur.“Shekels is a derogatory term used by white supremacists that ties into the myth that Jewish people only care about money [and is]used constantly by the extreme right and particularly neo-Nazis.”The use of shekels by hate groups ties into two pervasive anti-semitic staples: portraying Jewish people as greedy and claiming they also secretly control all media. References to globalism are also thinly veiled anti-semitic slights.Was the use deliberatea dog whistle to the alt-right white supremacist movementlike some think? Or was shekels simply a term the Trump Organization VP grew up hearing when people referred to someone being greedy?When people grow up hearing racist or ethnophobic or misogynistic language, they are likely to repeat it in their normal speech as adultsoften without even realizing it.People online caught the unusual choice of words right away as the following reactions show.	Liberal
An exchange documented by Barbara Res in aDaily NewsOpEd today offers a harrowing if unsurprising glimpse into the way President Donald Trump treats those who work for him.Ms. Res worked for the Trump organization in various vice presidential capacities for over a decade. Her piece in theDaily Newsdescribes one of the now-President’s interactions with an architect who dared to make elevators in Trump Tower more accessible to the disabled.Whats this? Trump asked.Braille, the architect replied.Trump told the architect to take it off, get rid of it.We cant, the architect said, Its the law.Get rid of the (expletive) braille. No blind people are going to live in Trump Tower. Just do it, Trump yelled back, calling him weak.Res’s account confirms what many have suspected since even before Trump descended the escalator of that same building to announce his candidacy for president: Trump targets those he perceives as weak.Res goes on to characterize just how Trump benefited from being a belligerent boss:He would say whatever came into his head. Ordering an underling to do something that was impossible gave Trump the opportunity to castigate a subordinate and also blame him for anything that ‘went wrong’ in connection with the unperformed order later. A Trump-style win-win.While Res’s OpEd gives more insight to just how bullish Trump’s management style is, many knew from his actions in the past week alone that Trump does not bring out the best in his staff and their performance.Trump organization figures are starting to go on the record about Trump's poor management style and ignorance of the law. https://t.co/grscN58xrI—  swiftly  (@Driveswift) September 12, 2018"FEAR" refers to Trump's management style. He's a bully, a sociopath who gets off on power plays and the kind of "respect" that comes from being a swaggering goon.Deny him that. We must use the tools of law and society to pull him down. Make him an example to future bullies.— Stefan Edward Jones (@StefanEJones) September 11, 2018On this day we are reminded 3000 Americans died from a terrorist attack. And we are also reminded that under trumps admin and lack of his leadership 3000 Americans died in Puerto Rico. His management style help contribute to their deaths.— Jippydedun (@jippydedun) September 11, 2018Trump can't be a better boss; he is 72 years old and ossified in every way.  His bad management style and his extreme corruption are long inherent in him. He should resign or be impeached.https://t.co/yJA4AwAjL8— Feral ballerina (@Govindira) September 10, 2018But, as Res points out, his management position no longer affects Trump Tower contractors and employees alone, but Americans everywhere.	Liberal
Daniel Dale is a Washington bureau chief and a member of the White House press corps representing the Toronto Star. Press corps members routinely attend briefings of the White House Press Secretaries and any news conferences held at the White House as well as the informal press gaggles that form between meetings and during arrivals and departures.In addition to United States news agencies, the White House press corps includes representatives of other nations. Daniel Dale’s employerToronto Staris Canada’s highest-circulation daily newspaper and biggest online news source.And the Toronto Star is tracking President Donald Trump.More specificallysince Trump took officethe Star dedicated a portion of their online presence to tracking the President’s lies. On a page titled “Donald Trump has said ___ false things as U.S. president,” a running tally of false statements fills in the blank.if you want to follow a fact checker who in real time every time Trump holds a speech catches each lie: @ddale8 (Daniel Dale) The Cheese Kitty (@WhoFdTheStork) September 11, 2018As of the afternoon of September 12, 2018, according to Star records, Trump hit 2,519 false claims for the first 591 days of his presidency for an average of 4.3 per day.To explain their reasoning for tracking such a thing, the top of the page states:“The Star is keeping track of every false claim U.S. President Donald Trump has made since his inauguration on Jan. 20, 2017. Why?”“Historians say there has never been such a constant liar in the Oval Office. We think dishonesty should be challenged. We think inaccurate information should be corrected. And we think the sheer frequency of Trumps inaccuracy is a central story of his presidency.”And according to Dale, Donald Trump set a new record for false statements in August, namely 321 in August, up from 280 in July which was up from 268 in June, all of which set records at the time.As you can see from this chart broken down by month, Trump falsehoods escalated in the last three months.Here’s the chart of Trump’s false claims by month. It’s been bad since mid-2017, but the last three months have been by far the worst. pic.twitter.com/jTJgPQMEp0 Daniel Dale (@ddale8) September 12, 2018In fairness, you cant simply jump right into 10-15 lies per day. Gotta work your way up. Slow and steady destroys reality machinations (@monetatdesprit) September 12, 2018Many commenters ask why Toronto Star does not call them lies. The paper makes a distinction between lies, which they define as knowingly making intentional false statements and those born of ignorance.Dale further broke down Trump falsehoods by week showing where spikes occurred. The top stories in each weekly news cycle correspond with dips and spikes in numbers.The last week of August was Trump’s fourth-most-dishonest week in office, with 83 false claims. All four of these weeks have come since mid-June. Here’s the weekly chart: pic.twitter.com/2EMiaKwjs6 Daniel Dale (@ddale8) September 12, 2018it would be interesting to see related major developments plotted on this graph (or the weekly one you made), such as the Manafort trial, Mueller subpoenas, book releases Andrew (@andryou) September 12, 2018Dale then shared his favorite misstatement, lie, falsehood or whatever category a claim made by Trump during the last week of August fell into.My favourite Trump lie from the last week of August was his claim, at an official event, that the lake beside his Charlotte golf course is the “largest man-made lake in the world, by far.”The largest man-made lake in the United States is 25 times larger. pic.twitter.com/cbcBQQW0yp Daniel Dale (@ddale8) September 12, 2018While people were not overly surprised, it is interesting to note the patterns the false statements take. Many relate to the President’s tendency for grandiose statements and the superlatives that dominate his speech patterns.Everything is biggest, best, most and greatest ever. Reality however rarely fully matches the Trump claims.	Liberal
Florida Governor Rick Scott, who is running for a seat in the state Senate, used his private jet to commute to a Senate campaign stop, which sort of defeats the purpose ofMake Washington Work” bus tour. That’s right:Bus tour.Scott’s campaign said he had to use his plane because he couldnt get from an official hearing of the Clemency Board in Tallahassee to the predominantly Republican Villagesretirement community in time.Chris Hartline, a campaign spokesman, justified the use of the private plane, saying the following:Clemency is an important duty that the governor takes very seriously. He took a break from the bus tour today to attend to his official duties and flew to meet the bus in The Villages.Gov. Scott is able to run an aggressive campaign while continuing to perform his official duties, unlike Bill Nelson, who cant do either.Hartline said, however, that he does not know if Scott has or will use his plane on other occasions to get around instead of using the bus.The snafu promptedDan McLaughlin, a spokesman for Scott’s opponent, Democrat Bill Nelson, to say that it shows that “Rick Scott can’t be trusted.”Hes a phony political leader on a phony bus tour selling a phony plan for his phony campaign, McLaughlin said. Everything he does is secretive aimed at shielding or hiding what hes up to when it comes to public scrutiny.Once news of the incident hit the internet, people proceeded to savage Scott.Leave it to @FLGovScott to use a plane as part of his "bus tour." Typical politician. Let's make sure we re-elect @SenBillNelson instead. https://t.co/f8V7b4VpcB— Roy David Walker (@WalkerForFL) September 12, 2018Not even surprised that @FLGovScott would take a private jet to join a stop of his bus tour. He is a fraud, has always been a fraud, and will continue to be a fraud if he reaches the Senate. #flapol https://t.co/PDviLwqeEk— rocco (@OMFGio) September 12, 2018Rick Scott representing the GOP in style; the party of…1. Fiscal Responsibility (haha)2. Medicare Fraud3. Travel by Private Jet https://t.co/DP29EsKFjq—  (@chrisbrad22) September 12, 2018@Lawrence Since he likely used campaign funds or taxpayer funds to pay for it, I dont think you can characterize it as his private jet. Right, @FLGovScott? https://t.co/cMgytZhEW3— Louie (@Louie80226291) September 12, 2018Good News for GOP Rick Scott supporters,Your campaign donations are now supporting Gov. Scott'sPrivate Jet.#Lessons_I_Learned_From_Trump https://t.co/8Osx56aQQb— Bonrat (@Its_A_GOP_COUP) September 12, 2018Scott’s itinerary has been shrouded in secrecy, so much so, in fact, thatone advocacy group went tocourtlast week to force him to disclose it. Scott hasremoved his jets tail numbers from public flight-tracking services.This incident comes after Republicans criticized Missouri Democrat Claire McCaskill for using a private plane during parts of her RV tour of Missouri this summer. McCaskill admitted using the plane after theWashington Free Beaconrelayed that the movements of her private jet had closely tracked with certain legs of a three-day RV tour to promote veterans issues.McCaskill called the report inaccurate and dismissed suggestions that she was trying to hide her use of the plane altogether.“The plane picked me up at the end of one day after I spent all day on the RV and it took me to my overnight location,” she told CNN at the time. “And the next day we used the plane to add a stop. But I was on the RV totally — two of the three days I was out.Anybody could have followed me … they could have seen me when I got off the RV and when I got on the airplane ….there was no effort to hide anything.”Republicans have been noticeably mum on the news of Scott’s own jet plane usethis is second transportation faux pas that Scott has committed since August.	Liberal
Estela Martn was testing her swimming skills during an entrance exam for the Spanish army when a male examiner noticed a black lotus flower tattooed on the upper part of her right foot. She was told she could not complete the exam because the tattoo was visible, and that it would be particularly obvious were she to wear a skirt.The Spanish armys rules no longer required women to don skirts, however, and Ms. Martn was fully aware of this change in policy, which was re-solidified after her expulsion. The tattoo was not visible when Ms. Martn wore trousers  her typical choice of wardrobe during her service  and she argued she was within regulations, but the examiner refused to budge in his steadfastness against her tattoo, insisting she could one day receive orders to wear a skirt.Ms. Martn had gotten the lotus tattoo at age 18, to her parents displeasure  though her father currently backs her decision not to remove the body art, on principle  but despite their strong oppositional feelings, she appreciated the flowers positive connotation.Ive always liked the idea that the lotus represents, which is that you have to fight for what you want, she explained to BBC.A decade later, that tattoo has caused her some distress in preserving her ambitions to serve in the Spanish military.I felt terrible, at first I couldnt believe it, Ms. Martn said. The reasons he was giving me seemed so absurd. I left utterly distraught, I was crying.Apparently, there were also several men, taking the same exam as she, who had body art  including a man with a tattoo on his heel  but the men were all left to complete their exams without interruption. A second woman was removed from the exam for having a tattoo that was partly erased with laser treatment.There were two things that bothered me: Firstly, there was the personal issue  it was two years of my life all for nothing, so much work and sacrifice. And then, above all, why should men be able to have the same tattoo and its no problem for them? Ms. Martn further explained.Prior to her removal from the exam, Ms. Martn had aspired to work as a military psychologist. After leaving her previous position at a Madrid hospital, she studied for two years for the requisite civil service exam, since the selection process is competitive and the exam rigorous.Until 2016, women in the Spanish army were made to wear skirts for particular occasions, but this rule has since changed. Women may request to wear a skirt, but a uniform in which the bare skin of the feet is visible is no longer obligatory uniform standard, no matter the circumstances.Views on body art and piercings are potentially changing among Spains military and security forces. For one, La Legin members sport tattoos openly. As well, the Interior Minister, Fernando Grande-Marlaska, froze the introduction of new rules for the physical appearance of civil guards, which would have included heightened enforcement toward tattoos, especially for women.	Liberal
Bob Woodward’s new book documenting the dysfunction of Donald Trump’s White House,Fear: Trump in the White House, was released on Tuesday, and Woodward has been doing the media rounds.Speaking to MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough Wednesday morning, Woodward explained that President Donald Trump often throws tantrums when presented with information contrary to his worldview and that Trump “wont face whats real” and is waging a “war on truth.”The topics of foreign policy and Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russiainvestigation, Woodward explained, are issues on which the president simply won’t face reality.“In the foreign policy areas, the handling of North Korea, Afghanistan, the Middle East, all of the immigration issues, all of the trade issues, I was able to excavate and find out actually what happened,” Woodward said. “This is the pattern,” Woodward added. Trump “wont face whats real.”Woodward has written books on nine presidents, beginning with Richard Nixon.The difference with Trump, Woodward said, is how Trump reacts when presented with facts.“I think the key in examining Trump is actually what will he do when people present him with facts?” Woodward said. “For instance, it sounds a little esoteric, but the World Trade Organization, which the United States is a member of  very important, allows us to file complaints of unfair trade practices  and theres a meeting in the Oval Office and the president says, Well, the World Trade Organization is the worst organization ever. We lose all of our cases.'”Woodward said Trump’s aides presented him with data that showed the United States has won 85.7 percent of all the cases, Trump refused to accept it because it challenged his internalized beliefs.“He says, No, thats not true, and the people are saying, Look, call the U.S. trade representative, your guy, and he will confirm this,’ Woodward said.“I dont want to hear it,” Trump said, according to Woodward. “I dont want to call him, I dont want to deal with it.”Woodward said Trump wholeheartedly refuses to accept information that challenges his long-held beliefs, even if they are demonstrably untrue.“At some point, he gets literally where the aides ask him, Where did you get these ideas?’ Woodward said. “And he will say, Well, Ive had them for 30 years, theyre right and if you disagree, youre wrong.'”When it comes to foreign policy, Woodward said Trump obsesses over how much money the United States spends keeping troops overseas.“What do we get out of this?” Trump asked during one meeting with national security officials. Secretary of Defense James Mattis had to explain to Trump that by keeping troops in South Korea, for example, “we’re trying to prevent World War III.” This occurred a year into Trump’s presidency, according to Woodward.On Tuesday night, Woodward appeared onThe Rachel Maddow Show,” where Maddow expressed concern over a president who may not be “right in the head.”Rachel Maddow and Bob Woodward discussed Trumps fatal flaw of being closed minded to new information and refusing to accept anything that differs with his views. https://t.co/8p851xlxeY pic.twitter.com/0mFKa7U8Rr— Sarah Reese Jones (@PoliticusSarah) September 12, 2018Maddow quotes excerpts from Woodward’s book in which he describes Trump as “emotionally overwrought, mercurial, and unpredictable.” Woodward said Trump “closes his mind to the information that makes it possible for the president to weigh arguments and data.” He added that even “the most ardent Trump supporter should give pause” and be concerned that “the White House and government are being managed this way.”Rachel Maddow highlights just a few passages from Bob Woodward's new book, "Fear: Trump in the White House," that describe exchanges in the White House that are worthy of their own books, if not at least a lot of further journalistic inquiry.   https://t.co/SyJ3cYD7zv— MSNBC (@MSNBC) September 12, 2018Woodward is right, people are concerned.	Liberal
As North and South Carolina gear up for an increasingly foreboding Hurricane Florence, President Donald Trump is doubling down on his claim that his administration’s response to Hurricane Maria, which killed around 3,000 Americans in Puerto Rico last year, was an unsung success.Yesterday, when was asked what lessons can be learned from his administration’s handling of Hurricane Maria last year, Trump remarked:“I think Puerto Rico was an incredible unsung success.”During briefing on approach of Hurricane #Florence, Pres. Trump calls government's response to Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria "tremendous.""I think that Puerto Rico was an incredible, unsung success." https://t.co/mBxz2xIKzY pic.twitter.com/37K3iRkvd1— ABC News (@ABC) September 11, 2018Even after receiving near-universal criticism for the absurd claim, this morning he took to Twitter to repeat the sentiment.We got A Pluses for our recent hurricane work in Texas and Florida (and did an unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico, even though an inaccessible island with very poor electricity and a totally incompetent Mayor of San Juan). We are ready for the big one that is coming!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2018It’s unclear what body graded the president and his administration on its performance in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria.After Puerto Rico’s governor Richard Rosello adjusted the official death toll of the hurricane last month, the White House asserted that it “remains proud of all of the work the Federal family undertook to help our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico.”Research conducted after the hurricane has shown that the majority of deaths did not occur due to the physical impact of Maria itself, but from a lack of preparedness which debilitated access to medical care and other necessities.Now, Americans are calling the president out for standing by the claim that Hurricane Maria’s response was successful.If you call 2975 people dead, a great job, I hate to see what a mediocre job would look like— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) September 12, 2018What a sad, sick, sorry, dangerous man.— Jeffrey D. Sachs (@JeffDSachs) September 12, 2018From who?The Paper Towel Industry!????? pic.twitter.com/M4bZsVzsmF— Born2play Drumcircle (@conga81) September 12, 2018You're a complete monster.— Mike Selinker (@mikeselinker) September 12, 2018All you cared about was being able to say "many people told me we did an amazing job." While you preened, an island died. #NeverForget— Dave Hogg (@stareagle) September 12, 2018Nope. Read this thread. The White House had NO plan for Puerto Rico a full WEEK after the hurricane. This is from an anonymous source at FEMA. ("Anonymous" means YOU don't know who it is. It doesn't mean *I* don't know who it is.https://t.co/c2UpepcqGM#WednesdayWisdom— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) September 12, 2018As Hurricane Florence approaches the Carolinas, Trump’s words are casting doubts on his ability to respond to natural disasters.	Liberal
According to polls from varied sources, the view of the United States economy rarely rated higher than now. Only during the booming tech stock period from 1998 to the beginning of 2001 have polls shown higher numbers regarding the economy.But another approval number continues to fall pointing to an unusual disconnect.While people see the economy as strong, the job approval rating for President Donald Trump continues to stay below 50 percent and even dips below 40 percent. A look at poll numbers since 1985 shows a trend of strong economies yielding strong job approval for the President in office.At the end of August, 2018, favorable views of the economy sat at 62.4 percent. A September 10, 2018 Quinnipiac poll put the number even higher at 70 percent.But at the end of August, Trump polled an average of only 41 percent for his job approval rating. The same Quinnipiac poll that showed 70 percent approval for the economy only garnered a 38 percent approval rating for the President.Trump frequently points to the economy as a measure of his success.The Economy is soooo good, perhaps the best in our countrys history (remember, its the economy stupid!), that the Democrats are flailing & lying like CRAZY! Phony books, articles and T.V. hits like no other pol has had to endure-and they are losing big. Very dishonest people! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 10, 2018While he inherited a recovering economy from President Barack Obamacoming up in both economic indicators and favorable poll numbers from the depths it had dropped to under President George W. Bushother Presidents maintained a high favorability rating based on an inherited economy as the graph shows.Bush inherited a strong economy from President Bill Clinton and despite the controversy of his win in the 2000 electionlosing the popular vote but winning the electoral votehis job approval rating only fell slightly.Obama inherited one of the poorest rated economies since Clinton took over from President George H. W. Bush. But his falling approval numbers recovered as he turned the economy around.Trump’s disconnect is not completely without precedent however. The scandals that plagued the end of the Clinton administration put the President’s job approval below the view of the economy. Clinton left office with a job approval at 63 percent, but 77 percent of voters viewed the economy favorably.That disconnect contributed to Vice President Al Gore’s defeat in the electoral vote against Bush. And that precedent should concern Republicans.Heading into the midterm elections in November, the head of their party sits not at 63 percent with a 77 percent favored economya 14 percentage point discrepancy. Trump sits at 38 percent job approval with a 70 percent approval of the economya 32 percentage point discrepancy.Republican candidates need to decide whether to embrace Trump or distance themselves. But if they distance themselves from the man, how do they embrace the economy?Karlyn Bowman, a polling expert at Washington’s conservative American Enterprise Institute, stated:“Theres a huge disconnect. The economy doesnt seem to be dominating in a way that it often does in elections.”Trump’s appointed Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mick Mulvaney, advised focusing on the economy and not on Trump in a meeting with Republican backers.But why the big disconnect? What is different this time?	Liberal
Fox News host Laura Ingraham’s brother Curtis has had enough of her “hypocrisy,” and is breakinghis silence over their estranged relationship."I think she's a monster," Curtis Ingraham said about right-wing Fox News host Laura Ingrahamhis "hypocrite" sister https://t.co/RwZQTEaKDf— The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) September 12, 2018In a telephone interview with The Daily Beast published on Tuesday, Curtis, a Calfornia-based teacher who happens to be gay, said of his right-wing pundit sister: “I think she’s a monster.” He described his sister’s personality as “destructive” and that she always comes across as “very angry.”“Shes very smart, shes well spoken, but her emotional heart is just kind of dead,” he said. “And you see it in her face when you see her on TV. Shes ready to destroy. She does not listen to understandshe listens to respond. And her response is always an attack.”Her own brother thinks she is a monster = She is MUCH, much worse than we thought. Evil witch!!— MC (@lina_mcs) September 12, 2018Curtis has “very limited contact at this point” with his sister, he told The Daily Beast, due in large part to her stance on LGBT issues.While studying at Dartmouth in the 1980’s, Laura secretly recorded a gay campus group meeting, which she called “cheerleaders for latent campus sodomites,” and subsequently outed the students to their parents, along with sending them recordings of the meetings.Laura later wrote a regretful op-ed in 1997 after Curtis came out as gay, which Curtis said moved him toward forgiveness. But Laura’s gradual descent into religious extremism created a bigger schism in their relationship, as her views on gay marriage became an issue on which the siblings would have to “agree to disagree.”Her second 180 pivot on LGBT issues “goes against my ethics,” Curtis recalled. “Youre destroying me. Its hideous, its hideous behavior.”Curtis!   Thank you!— Harper Beckett (@HarperCrusades) September 12, 2018Curtis said “thats what Im trying to unveil here, the hypocrisy. Familys first, I know about gay rights, my brother is gay. Its all a sham.”Ingraham responded to her brother’s posts, which she describes as “false and hurtful,” expressing regret over the deterioration of their relationship.“My siblings and I are shocked and saddened to learn of these false and hurtful online postings,” Ingraham said in a statement. “Although weve been estranged from him for many years, we love our brother and miss him very much.”Curtis has routinely used Twitter to challenge his sister’s extreme right-wing views.In June, he supported an advertising boycott of Laura’s show after she attacked Parkland survivor David Hogg, whom Curtis said he supports.David Hogg calls for another boycott of Fox News' Laura Ingraham https://t.co/BlYwNMa58K via @usatoday— Curtis Ingraham (@CurtisIngraham1) June 21, 2018“My sister’s recent comments likening detention centers to summer camps is beyond disturbing. Where is her humanity?” Curtis tweeted in June.Once again, I am in full support of David Hogg.  My sister's recent comments  likening child detention centers to summer camps is beyond disturbing.  Where is her humanity?  Sad and tragic. @davidhogg111 #davidhogg #LauraIngraham @Journo_Christal @TimMarc— Curtis Ingraham (@CurtisIngraham1) June 21, 2018He then tagged a number of sponsors of Ingraham’s show, calling their support “disturbing.”	Liberal
San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz criticized President Donald Trump after he claimed his administration’s efforts in Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria “is one of the best jobs that has ever been done.”“If he thinks the death of 3,000 people os [sic] a success God help us all,” Cruz said in part.Success? Federal response according to Trump in Puerto Rico a success? If he thinks the death of 3,000 people os a success God help us all.— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 11, 2018She added: “Can you imagine what he thinks failure looks like?”Pres Trump thinks loosing 3,000 lives is a success. Can you imagine what he thinks failure looks like?— Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) September 12, 2018A George Washington University study published last monthrevised the island’s official death toll to 2,975 people, many of whom died due to lack of aid, electricity, water, and access to medical care. The Trump administration shuffled its feet in response to the disaster and was savaged for offering aid remarkably quickly to the victims of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma by comparison. Many joined the San Juan mayor in slamming the president.45 is a monster. Of course he would say that the US response in Puerto Rico was great. Tell that to the over 3000 + Puerto Ricans who lost their lives. What continues to happen in Puerto Rico is mass human rights violations.— Rosa A. Clemente (@rosaclemente) September 11, 2018The man takes glee in the suffering of others. It is disgusting that everything concerning him is Biggest, Best, Worst, Etc. He's actually hoping Florence is even worse!! Puerto Rico needs to join the United States, get the representation you deserve & help swing Congress.— Nov 6 – Vote 'D' for Democracy OR 'R' for Russia (@DianaMiller5) September 11, 2018Yes but but PR lives are not as valuable as US lives … oh wait…isnt PR a US Territory? Never mind.— CryptoCrusader (@crusaderl8) September 12, 2018Id like for someone to ask him why he considers it a success.— Peanut (@leopard73seal) September 12, 2018My kindness and deep respect, but our very sorry excuse for a president thinks he has never failed. Neck deep in the muck and he thinks he's winning. People are dying and he thinks it's a win.— M A K (@MAK7591) September 12, 2018Trump responded soon after, giving his administration “A Pluses for our recent hurricane work in Texas and Florida,” adding that they “did an unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico.” He also called Cruz “incompetent.”We got A Pluses for our recent hurricane work in Texas and Florida (and did an unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico, even though an inaccessible island with very poor electricity and a totally incompetent Mayor of San Juan). We are ready for the big one that is coming!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2018The Trump administration was plagued by scandals related to its response to the storm, however, as Second Nexus pointed out yesterday:The awarding of the multimillion dollar electrical restoration contract to acompany with no disaster experiencethat belonged to afriend of a cabinet memberbrought allegations of corruption and cronyism. Theofficial death tollremains unresolved. And getting into Twitter feuds with both the Governor of Puerto Rico and themayor of San Juanhurt the Trump administrations public image.The president was also derided as callous and insensitive for an appearance during which he tossed paper towels into a crowd of hurricane victims.Trump tosses paper towel rolls into crowd of hurricane victims during Puerto Rico visit https://t.co/76SmM1I85H pic.twitter.com/CnGIlcqZQU— FOX 4 NEWS (@FOX4) October 3, 2017A POLITICO investigation found the Trump administration’s response to Hurricane Harvey was “faster and greater, at least initially” than its response to Hurricane Maria:No two hurricanes are alike, and Harvey and Maria were vastly different storms that struck areas with vastly different financial, geographic and political situations. But a comparison of government statistics relating to the two recovery efforts strongly supports the views of disaster-recovery experts that FEMA and the Trump administration exerted a faster, and initially greater, effort in Texas, even though the damage in Puerto Rico exceeded that in Houston.	Liberal
For some time, few people took the notion of an electric bus seriously. In 2011, Chinese automotive manufacturer BYD Co. revealed an early model at an industry conference in Belgium, and was met with laughter.Isbrand Ho, managing director of BYD in Europe, remembered the laughter from that day directed at BYD for making a toy, but continued, And look now. Everyone has one.Presently, and in a relatively short period of time, battery-powered buses have progressed to serious contenders in changing city transportation for good, as well as a strong addition to the reconfiguration of the energy industry on a global scale.It is unusual that this powerhouse of a concept was conceived and initially put forth in China  where carbon emissions run high and air quality is at a fairly consistent low  yet, the concept is already beginning to disintegrate demands for fossil fuel.In 2017, China had about 99 percent of the 385,000 electric buses on roads in their possession, which is 17 percent of the countrys entire supply of buses. Every five weeks, Chinese cities add 9,500 zero-emissions buses to their supply, or about as many buses as Londons entire operational fleet, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF).An average bus consumes 30 times the fuel of an average car, and thanks to electric buses, the demand for fuel is decreasing. However, this is hurting the fuel industry.According to BNEF calculations, for every 1,000 battery-powered buses on the road, about 500 barrels a day of diesel fuel will go unused; for 2018, the volume of unneeded fuel may rise 37 percent to 279,000 barrels per day  233,000 being from electric buses alone  due to electric transport, which also includes cars and light trucks. This is roughly about as much oil as Greece consumes, according to BNEF.Colin McKerracher, head of advanced transport at the London-based research unit of Bloomberg LP, said on the matter, This segment is approaching the tipping point.  City governments all over the world are being taken to task over poor urban air quality. This pressure isnt going away, and electric bus sales are positioned to benefit.China, which for some time was notorious for worst pollution rates in the world, is growing in urban population and therefore rising in demand for energy. The need for electric automobiles or other emissions-reducing solutions is high, as smog resulted in 1.6 million deaths in 2015, according to Berkeley Earth, an environmental nonprofit.Ten years ago, Shenzhen was booming and the environment was not a primary concern. Infamous for the smog that accompanied its profitable businesses, the Chinese government selected the city to participate in a program for energy conservation and zero emissions vehicles in 2009. In the following two years, the first electric buses made their appearances off of BYDs production line.BYD, holding 13 percent of Chinas electric bus market in 2016, sent 14,000 vehicles to the streets of Shenzhen  and 16,359, as of this past May. Thus far, the company has built 35,000 buses and can build up to 15,000 annually, according to Ho, and the company also estimates its buses have traveled 17 billion kilometers, or 10 billion miles, and saved 6.8 billion liters, or 1.8 billion gallons, of fuel since inception. Ho explained that these numbers equate to 18 million tons of carbon dioxide pollution averted, the equivalent of roughly that which 3.8 million cars generate each year.The first fleet of pure electric buses provided by BYD started operation in Shenzhen in 2011. Now, almost ten years later, in other cities, the air quality has worsened, while  compared with those cities  Shenzhens is much better, Ho told BNEF.	Liberal
A new report from the nonpartisanCongressional Budget Office indicates that the federal deficit has increased to $895 billion 11 months into the 2018 fiscal year (which ends on September 30), a $222 billion increase over the deficit this time last year.According to Think Progress, that puts us on track to hit $1 trillion by the end of the fiscal year, two years earlier than expected.Perhaps unsurprisingly, the nonpartisan CBO said the growth was largely due to the Republican tax law that took effect this year, as well as to general spending increases. This fiscal year, outlays grew by seven percent, while revenue only grew by one.Fiscal watchdog Stan Collender elaborated on this:You’ve got a kind of perfect storm here. You’ve got more spending. You’ve got less revenue. And the deficit is just getting bigger and bigger, to the point where it will be at least a trillion dollars every year during the Trump administration and beyond.”It didn’t take the CBO’s confirmation to know that the ballooning was due to Republican economic policies pushed by President Donald Trump.Fiscal conservatism, eh?  Thanks, TRUMP!Federal deficit SOARS 32 percent to $895Bhttps://t.co/5EIQaYQ0LS— Sister Resister (@JaceLGalloway) September 11, 2018The deficit is up 32% so that billionaires who didn't need a tax break, could get a tax break. We need smart investments in infrastructure & education — NOT a tax giveaway that doesn't do nearly enough to help hardworking Americans. https://t.co/tQoISUomnT— Tim Ryan (@TimRyan) September 11, 2018I would have expected more goodly math from President four bankruptcies. https://t.co/Nt2JInqdkd— Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) September 11, 2018Sadly, this shouldn’t come as a surprise. Numerous economists saw this coming.The Republican tax law slashed corporate tax rates by thirty percent, as well as giving the top one percent of earners 83 percent of the tax cuts in the bill.Now, Republicans are gearing up for another round.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has reportedly canceled his November trip to Ireland, sources say, amid a flurry of protests that have been scheduled ahead of his visit.BREAKING: Donald Trump, the US President, has cancelled next month's planned visit to Ireland, https://t.co/SE3D6nPhhz understands https://t.co/6OllgFcwFx pic.twitter.com/wTtn91KUEk— Independent.ie (@Independent_ie) September 11, 2018The Irish Independent reported on Tuesday that the cancellation of the trip, which had been scheduled for November 12, “will come as a massive relief to the Government.”“Trump was planning to spend one day in Dublin,” writes the Independent, “before traveling to Doonbeg, Co Clare where he owns a golf link.”I've just confirmed reports that President Trump's trip to Ireland, scheduled for mid-November, has been canceled.— Niall Stanage (@NiallStanage) September 11, 2018The president had planned on stopping over in Ireland on his way back from honoring Armistice Day, the 100th anniversary of the ending of World War I, in France. November 11 is recognized as Veteran’s Day in the United States.Irish Prime MinisterLeo Varadkar said in a statement that the abrupt change in Trump’s schedule caught him off-guard and that the invitation for Trump to visit Ireland remains open.“There is an open invitation to the US president to visit Ireland at any time, I think theyve all visited since Reagan, if not before and obviously theres an open invitation for me, or any future Taoiseach [prime minister], to attend Washington in March,” Varadkar said. “We hadnt known until just a couple of days ago that he was going to take the opportunity of his visit to Paris for the Armistice commemorations, commemorating a hundred years of the end of the First World War, to visit Dublin, and also hes going to go to Doonbeg too.”A spokesperson for Varadkar said representatives for Trump “cited scheduling reasons” for canceling the trip.“We’ve got to work out on a programme and all the rest of it but I think any programme we will have will have to respect the fact that we will be inaugurating our own President on the 11th of November,” the spokesman added. “And also will have to make sure that we have enough time and space to commemorate the Armistice because bear in mind hundreds of thousands of Irish people, including a lot of people from this city, fought in the first world war. We need to make sure that’s appropriate and fits around that as well.”As of Tuesday afternoon, American officials have not cited any specific reasons for the change in the president’s schedule.“The president will travel to Paris in November as previously announced, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. “We are still finalizing whether Ireland will be a stop on that trip. As details are confirmed we will let you know.”Some Irish political parties, such as the Labor and Green parties, said they had been planning protests should Trump choose to visit their country.Cancellation of Trump's November visit to Ireland is "a bullet dodged for sure," an Irish diplomatic source familiar with negotiations tells @mattyhoyeCNN who reports many officials in Irish government "were definitely not looking forward to Trump's visit.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) September 11, 2018Last week, Labor Party leader Brendan Howlen tweeted that Trump is “no friend of democracy and human rights” and encouraged Irish citizens to protest Trump’s stopover, should it occur.Ill be on Dise Today on @wlrfm just after 10 to chat about #TrumpInIreland. @labours position is clear, Trump and his values are not welcome in Ireland.— Brendan Howlin (@BrendanHowlin) September 4, 2018Scores of people in Ireland took the Twitter to share their thoughts – and it sure does seem like they don’t want Trump to visit.	Liberal
When asked to assess the presidency of George W. Bush, most cite his response to Hurricane Katrina as a low point. Bush himself admitted he regrets some of the decisions made.When assessing the presidency of Donald Trump, most cite his own errors in regard to Hurricane Maria and the recovery efforts in Puerto Rico. Scandals and missteps plagued the Trump administration in the wake of the deadly storm.The awarding of the multimillion dollar electrical restoration contract to a company with no disaster experience that belonged to a friend of a cabinet member brought allegations of corruption and cronyism. The official death toll remains unresolved. And getting into Twitter feuds with both the Governor of Puerto Rico and the mayor of San Juan hurt the Trump administration’s public image.And who could forget the paper towels?Trump tosses paper towel rolls into crowd of hurricane victims during Puerto Rico visit https://t.co/76SmM1I85H pic.twitter.com/CnGIlcqZQU FOX 4 NEWS (@FOX4) October 3, 2017But when asked what he learned after Hurricane Maria, President Donald Trump did not give his administration a passing mark. He gave efforts in Puerto Rico the label “one of the best jobs ever done.”Watch the interview question here.Reporter: What lesson do we take from what happened in Puerto Rico?President Trump: I think that Puerto Rico was incredibly successful…I actually think that it was one of the best jobs that has ever been done. https://t.co/0B3li498Rg pic.twitter.com/gv2VMVD9Gj CBS News (@CBSNews) September 11, 2018People found the response surprisinggiven the issues in Puerto Rico almost a year after the hurricane hitleading some to question, what “job” the President referred to in his answer.What was the “job” he’s referring to? Was the goal to let as many innocent people as possible die? If so, great job! If the idea was to protect American citizens then it was a disgraceful failure. Winona Sioux (@WinonaSioux) September 11, 2018My takeaway is that Trump does not care about brown Americans. Or poor Americans.I’m also pretty sure he doesn’t think that Puerto Ricans ARE Americans. pic.twitter.com/yqJFupqrIo NextTime On Survivor (@NTonSurvivor) September 11, 2018Others pointed out which issues the United States citizens in Puerto Rico still face.Literally had to listen to this bc I can’t fathom he actually said this – One of the best jobs ever done? Because it’s normal for our citizens to be without power for a full year. @realDonaldTrump do you have any connection to reality?? Barbara Cossman (@BIC_09) September 11, 2018Only someone as half-assed as @realDonaldTrump could possibly think the hurricane response for #PuertoRico was a tremendous job. It was a TERRIBLE job! Theyre STILL cleaning up after it! ChumpChange (@Geranthrimin) September 11, 2018As a Puerto Rican I defer from this Orange Specimen’s assessment. We still have people without Electricity and those who “have it” cannot say they have been a straight month with service! Thousands have blue tarps as roofs at almost a year since Mara. Tai Pelli (@TaiPelli) September 11, 2018What Puerto Rico is he talking about? A year later and they are still recovering. He thinks leaving hundreds of thousands of American citizens without any power or freshwater for months is successful? Sherry Sherry (@Sherrysherry1) September 11, 2018pic.twitter.com/ihMTGMCYpY 24tee.com (@24tees) September 11, 2018Others saw it as ominous news for anyone in Florence’s path as the following reactions show.	Liberal
On Monday, September 10, MSNBC Morning Joe hostJoe Scarborough penned an OpEd for The Washington Post. In it, he claimed President Donald “Trump is harming the dream of America more than any foreign adversary ever could.”In the Post piece, Scarborough quoted New York Times Roger Cohen. A month after the 2016 presidential election, Cohen wrote:“America is an idea. Strip freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law from what the United States represents to the world and America itself is gutted.”On Tuesday morning, Scarborough clarified his point during his morning show. The MSNBC host cited the President’s refusal to condemn racism and retweeting of posts from known white supremacist or other organized hate groups.Scarborougha Republican former United States House of Representatives memberstated:“That is tearing more at the fabric of America than attacks on the Twin Towers did. We rebuilt after that, we grew stronger after that, but this, to me, seems like a far graver threat.”“Forget about knocking down buildings in the Financial District, forget about running planes into the Pentagon. Those are tragedies, but those tragedies bring us closer together.”Former Chief of the New York City (NYC) Transit Police and NYC Police Commissioner, Bill Bratton tweeted Scarborough’s OpEd on Tuesday, calling it “appropriate.”On this very meaningful day, Joe Scarborough’s op-ed is so appropriate. Nice work, @JoeNBC. https://t.co/HK80UchNkb Bill Bratton (@CommissBratton) September 11, 2018But later that morning, the President’s first child with first wife Ivana TrumpDonald Trump Jr.demanded an apology from Scarborough on behalf of others.Joe you owe an apology to the 3000+ families who lost loved ones on this tragic day. Injecting politics today is disgraceful and only shows how irrelevant and deranged youve become. https://t.co/tFncxA5CQT Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 11, 2018Trump Jr. stated politics on 9/11 “is disgraceful and only shows how irrelevant and deranged youve become.” His father faced a bit of backlash of his own for his behavior upon arriving in Pennsylvania en route to a 9/11 ceremony in Shanksville honoring those who perished on Flight 93.While approaching gathered supporters, the elder Trump pumped his fists and drew criticism for his “first instinct upon arriving for an incredibly solemn ceremony, is to act as if you’re at one of your rallies.”Scarborough did not respond to Trump Jr.’s tweet, but he did reply to criticism from a colleague, Jeryl Bier of The Weekly Standard. Monday night, Bier referred to Scarborough’s OpEd as “freaking stupid” but on Tuesdayciting a crisis of conscienceBier tempered his response.This premise is freaking stupid, just provocative for the sake of being provocative. https://t.co/wZHtLIHpTQ Jeryl Bier (@JerylBier) September 11, 2018OK, I haven’t been called out by anyone, but my conscience has been bothering me, so let me just say while I still find @JoeNBC‘s premise repugnant and risible, “freaking stupid” is more harsh than I care to be (although I’ve probably done worse & probably will again.) Sorry. https://t.co/789egdlPLK Jeryl Bier (@JerylBier) September 11, 2018Scarborough responded to Bier, acknowledging he could choose his own words more carefully. He also cited the last paragraph of his OpEd becoming the sole focus for many Trump supporters, missing the point of his overall opinion.Jeryl, youre a great example for all of usespecially me today. Many have been offended by a tweet I sent out earlier re: my @washingtonpost article. Even if they did not read the article, I should have shown more care on the tweets wording and the columns conclusion. https://t.co/A7zJR38JiC Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) September 11, 2018The column was focused on 17 years of strategic missteps. The last paragraph became the sole focus of Trump supporters. On every other day of the year, I do not shy away from negative feedback from the right, the left or from Trump supporters. Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) September 11, 2018On September 11th, Ill read the column again and think about whether I could have said the same thing in a way less offensive to Trump supporters on September 11th. Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) September 11, 2018But while Scarborough failed to address Trump Jr., his Morning Joe co-host Mika Brzezinski did in the following tweet.	Liberal
Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) is accusing a crowdfunding effort to fund her 2020 opponent if she votes to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court as an attempted to “bribe” her.Collins calls crowdfunding to get her to oppose Kavanaugh a "bribe" https://t.co/sTQsjvQELQ pic.twitter.com/TGB8RHdm4L— The Hill (@thehill) September 11, 2018“I consider this quid pro quo fundraising to be the equivalent of an attempt to bribe me to vote against Judge Kavanaugh,” Collins, one of only two pro-choice Republicans in the Senate, told Newsmax in an exclusive interview on Monday. The other pro-choice Senate Republican is Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski.Pence Now Says He may have to be the tie-breaking vote for the Kavanaugh Vote.I urge everyone to Please call these 2 Senators:Susan Collins: (207) 622-8414Lisa Murkowski: (202)-224-6665Tell them to 'VOTE NO!'Call & RETWEET Please!!— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) September 9, 2018“If I vote against him, the money is refunded to the donors,” she said. “If I vote for him, the money is given to my opponent for the 2020 race.”Collins is referring to the “Be a Hero” campaign, which was launched last month.It’s not a bribe.I read where Sen Collins felt this was a "bribe"?  Whatever it take to get her attention, because the staff doesn't answer the phone, or when they do they don't take messages?  What's a voter to do???— K. Manson (@KManson7) September 11, 2018Be clear, this is not a bribe.  This is a promise to make sure that if Collins votes to take women's reproductive rights away, we will make sure we elect someone that will fight for women's rights and freedom.  Simple as that.  Oh, and Kavanaugh also lied under oath.— Pocahontas (@solidarityvta) September 11, 2018Here's how this works: If @SenatorCollins votes yes on Kavanaugh, all the money we've pledged (almost $1 million so far) will fund her Democratic opponent in 2020. If she votes no, none of us are charged. I pledged $20.20. Can you match (or exceed) it? https://t.co/S5MQKoelIN— shauna (@goldengateblond) September 11, 2018If it were a "bribe", it would be payable to Collins, not to whoever runs against this two faced Trump enabler. She should think of it more as a threat to her incumbency.— John Smith Chicago (@JohnSmithChgo) September 11, 2018Be a Hero’s goal is to replace Collins with a Democrat, should the incumbent Republican choose to vote for Kavanaugh, who is seen by many to be a threat to Roe vs. Wade.Collins said thatthe Be a Hero effort “will not influence my vote at all, adding that she believes the campaign “demonstrates the new lows to which the judges opponents have stooped.Kavanaugh is committed to ending healthcare for people with pre-existing conditions. He is committed to overturning Roe v. Wade, Be A Hero says. Kavanaugh cannot be nominated  he would mean bankruptcy and danger for millions of families in Maine and America.There are two scenarios that the website lays out:Senator Collins votes NO on Kavanaugh and you will not be charged, and no money will go to fund her future opponent.Senator Collins votes YES on Kavanaugh and your pledge will go to her opponents campaign, once that opponent has been identified.“The people of Maine are asking you to be a hero, Senator Collins,” thecrowdfunding pagestates. “Your swing vote could decide whether a rubber stamp for Trumps anti-healthcare, anti-woman, anti-labor agenda gets confirmed to the Supreme Courtcosting millions of Americans their health care, their right to choose,and their lives.”As of Tuesday, donations to the CrowdPachave surpassed $1 million of their $1.3 million goal.Crowdfunding campaign pushing for Collins to vote against Kavanaugh reaches $1 million https://t.co/cP2dbvitSO pic.twitter.com/kFG1NH4KFm— The Hill (@thehill) September 11, 2018Collins has previously said that if Kavanaughappeared to be a threat to Roe v. Wade, then she may be compelled to vote no.If in fact (Kavanaugh) was not truthful, then obviously that would be a major problem for me, Collins said. https://t.co/nrYOPq1uhN— Rachel Maddow MSNBC (@maddow) September 10, 2018Roe v. Wade is a case that was decided in 1973 so its 45 years old. It was reaffirmed 26 years ago. If you look at how much a part of our society Roe is you could argue it would be very difficult to overturn,” Collins said. She added that if evidence surfaced of Kavanaugh issueing false statements during his 2004 confirmation hearing to the United State Court of Appeals, “that would be a major problem for me.”Collins’ legacy is seeing as being largely dependent upon her vote on Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.The vote on Brett Kavanaugh is the "one on which Sen. Susan Collins' legacy will hinge." Portland Press Herald columnist https://t.co/JihnIfUG5x— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) September 10, 2018What is likely to happen:  Collins votes for Kavanaugh; Collins gets beat next Seanate election; Kavanaugh does everything he can to overturn Roe; Collins goes down in history as the vote that allowed it….Collins big claim to fame.— observations (@observe_tc) September 11, 2018“I know its frustrating to the press, but until I finish my review Im going to defer my decision-making,”Collins toldPortland Press Herald reporter Joe Lawlor on Friday.Still, the extraordinary consequences of confirming Kavanaugh to the nation’s highest court are rippling through social media.	Liberal
President Donald Trump was up bright and early on the morning of September 11, 2018. His Twitter feed shows he’s been tweeting pretty regularly since 4:08 am EST, but many of these tweets show that he’s more concerned about avoiding impeachment, evading a potential indictment, and delegitimizing Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s subversion of the 2016 presidential election.In fact, the closest he’s come to commemorating the 17th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks himselfaside from retweeting a post from his social media directoris the following tweet, in which he notes how much time has passed:17 years since September 11th!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 11, 2018The president has not memorialized the nearly 3,000 individuals who died on 9/11, nor has he offered condolences to their still living family members.He has not commended the efforts of the first responders, many of whom died while rescuing others before and after the World Trade Center crumbled. He has not extended his support for the many men and women who signed up for military service, some of whom died, lost limbs, or were dealt significant blows to their mental health.Unsurprisingly, the president is being criticized for a responsehis critics say strikes an inappropriately congratulatory tone. In particular, the explanation point Trump used grants his words an odd, excited emphasis.The exclamation point. No words. https://t.co/GDZR3cps8I— Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) September 11, 2018This reads like something a 13 year old would tweet. And who puts an exclamation point in this? Like we should be excited about it? What a complete and utter buffoon. https://t.co/MPvKH7I55j— T.D. Dery (@TD1TribeKU) September 11, 2018Manages to make this sound like some obscene sporting victory with exclamation mark https://t.co/2iGOKvV75I— Tom Quinn (@TomTheProducer1) September 11, 2018Does this statement really need an exclamation point? Are you excited about this? It's actually a pretty solemn day of remembering all the lives lost. Once again totally inappropriate remark made by a man child…— Grams a Leo (@gramsaleo) September 11, 2018This would be inappropriate if it had come from a news journalist.That it has come from the President of the country who suffered from this attack is outrageous beyond my capacity to describe it. https://t.co/yJy3lx09ir— Pedro Henrique L. do Nascimento (@PHLdoNascimento) September 11, 2018This is NOT a celebration. My office was destroyed and I lost many friends and shipmates that day. Lucky for me, my last day in the Pentagon before returning to sea duty was 9-10. Empathy with a nation that grieved doesn't come with an exclamation point.— George Capen #exGOP (@george_capen) September 11, 2018Once again your eloquent use of the English language perfectly captures both your true intellect whilst displaying the depths of your compassion, both being shallow and unconvincing.— Richard Fenton (@RichFenton) September 11, 2018Others compared the president’s message to the one issued by his predecessor, Barack Obama.“There’s nothing our resilience and resolve cant overcome, and no act of terror can ever change who we are,” Obama tweeted earlier today.We will always remember everyone we lost on 9/11, thank the first responders who keep us safe, and honor all who defend our country and the ideals that bind us together. There's nothing our resilience and resolve cant overcome, and no act of terror can ever change who we are.— Barack Obama (@BarackObama) September 11, 2018Trump has also been criticized after a video of him calling into a New York TV news broadcast as the station aired footage of the World Trade Center attacks to gloat that his building at 40 Wall Street would be the tallest in Manhattan.	Liberal
A new photo of President Donald Trump arriving in western Pennsylvania for an event commemorating the September 11 attacks is going viral for all the wrong reasons.In the photo, as First Lady Melania Trump trudges somberly behind him, the president almost looks to be cheering.photo from Doug Mills (NYT) of the President arriving for a 9/11 Memorial Service near Shanksville, PA a short time ago: pic.twitter.com/y3bgAiHpna— J.D. Durkin (@jiveDurkey) September 11, 2018As other photos made clear, Trump was approaching a gathering of his supporters at the time of his double fistbump.WATCH: President Trump greets supporters upon arrival in Johnstown, Penn., while en route to Shanksville to honor those who died aboard United Airlines Flight 93 when it crashed 17 years ago today during the 9/11 attacks. https://t.co/TI1qXHQQNO pic.twitter.com/Uum9rmdV9j— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 11, 2018But still,many found it shocking.What??? https://t.co/iTJeUPGzi9— Jim Roberts (@nycjim) September 11, 2018Can you imagine having so little sense of decorum, sensitivity, self-awareness, that your first instinct upon arriving for an incredibly solemn ceremony, is to act as if you're at one of your rallies? https://t.co/7zOTiz6N9e— Elizabeth West (@Limeylizzie) September 11, 2018oh for the love of https://t.co/lNNkfO9JFA— shauna (@goldengateblond) September 11, 2018Wtf is wrong with him??— stephen carlin (@stephencarlin) September 11, 2018It led some to stop and process just how abnormal this period in the United States is.Imagine this as your leader pic.twitter.com/c9s68g5QiQ— sam (@yoongiswxft) September 11, 2018The President of the United States of America"Excited" for 9/11WHATATIME pic.twitter.com/1SJ84NkRsj— Blog Boyz (@blogboyzHQ) September 11, 2018Around the same time, Trump’s tweet about the tragedy also struck many as less than sensitive.17 years since September 11th!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 11, 2018Rather than relaying any empathy or reverence, it seemed that the president was bragging about his ability to do basic arithmetic.A lot of presidents would use this day to honor the dead, rather than prove they have the ability to count.— James Felton (@JimMFelton) September 11, 2018Some emphasized the responses of other leaders to contrast his hollow words.An example below of real leadership. Its not even his country…..but i guess, its not yours either. pic.twitter.com/G3Y76Pid6j— Trae (@traebordileau) September 11, 2018This is how it's done. #911Anniversary pic.twitter.com/gxJ5hRCnmW— Unarmed Teacher (@UnarmedTeacher) September 11, 2018https://twitter.com/lil_nitelite/status/1039525742353235968There are things that should come easy to United States presidents, like denouncing Nazis and standing up to Vladimir Putin, that the president still manages to bungle. Displaying reverence for the tragedy brought by the September 11th attacks is one of these things. It’s been that way since moments after the towers fell.	Liberal
In June, seven civic leaders in Washington DCpetitioned their Advisory Neighborhood Commission 4C (ANC 4C) to revoke Donald Trumps liquor license for the Trump International Hotel in Washington DC, based on the fact that DC law requires liquor licenses to be granted only to those of “good character.”In July, the commission unanimously approved their petition and forwarded it to theDistrict of Columbia Alcohol Beverage Control Board for review and judgment.Now, the groupcomprised of three reverends, two rabbis and two former federal court judgesaddedadditional allegations to their original petition.Their original and reinforced reason for seeking the license revocation?According to the religious and federal court veterans, President Donald Trump lacks good moral character. And the civic leadership in Washington DC is not alone in that assessment of the President’s character as the results of a recent Quinnipiac poll show.While the job of President requires no test of character to assume the position, a liquor license in the District of Columbia does.The original petitionsigned and presented by the seven spiritual and judicial leaderscompiled in April stated:“Donald Trump, the true and actual owner of the Trump International Hotel, is not a person of good character.”The Washington DC civic leaders provided examples to back their assertions and now wish to provide more. Their additional citations were accepted and addended to their petition before the liquor licensing board on September 6.Their new information?Much of it draws from recent legal woes of Trump organization and administration associates. The guilty plea by former Trump personal attorney and fixer Michael Cohen included the statement that then-candidate Trump ordered Cohen to make payments to at least two women during the presidential campaign to cover up alleged affairs.Their addendum stated:“[Trump]likely committed serious violations of the campaign finance laws.”They also cited the President’s role in making false statements regarding a meeting between his son, Donald Trump Jr., and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and at least one Russian government operative in Trump Tower in June 2016.Their amended petition stated:“[Trump made]misleading statements regarding his son Donald Trump, Jr.s June 2016 meeting… [and]lied to cover up his role in the crafting of the misleading statement.”The story of the Trump Tower meeting changed numerous times from first disclosure until the parties, except the President, testified at a congressional hearing.The tangled tale included a false official statement presented by Trump Jr. claiming the purpose of the meeting involved adoption. Eventually the story settled on the meeting being an attempt to gain damaging information from the Russians against Hillary Clinton and that Trump Sr. dictated the false statement while on a conference call on Air Force One.Read the full addendum and their original petition at the end of this article.	Liberal
The International Criminal Court announced on Tuesday that it would “continue to do its work undeterred” after National Security Advisor John Bolton threatened retaliation if the court investigated alleged American war crimes in Afghanistan.International court says it is undeterred after Bolton threatens U.S. sanctions https://t.co/f48hkciNju pic.twitter.com/ntOsAiMprO— Reuters Top News (@Reuters) September 11, 2018“The ICC, as a court of law, will continue to do its work undeterred, in accordance with those principles and the overarching idea of the rule of law,” the ICC said.The court has a “reasonable basis to believe” war crimes were committed in Afghanistan during the United States’ longest war, said prosecutorFatou Bensouda.Reuters reported on Tuesday that “the ICC that all sides in the conflict would be examined, including members of the U.S. armed forces and Central Intelligence Agency.”On Monday, Bolton said the ICC was “illegitimate” and “for all intents and purposes, the ICC is already dead to us.” He told the conservative Federalist Society that he sees the court as ineffective, unaccountable, and indeed outright dangerous.”"We will provide no assistance to the ICC," John Bolton said of the International Criminal Court, which is preparing to investigate Americans for alleged detainee abuse in Afghanistan.He also said the U.S. will use any means necessary to protect citizens from unjust prosecution pic.twitter.com/dFeFFKQ4Ol— POLITICO (@politico) September 10, 2018The United States under President George W. Bush, alongwith Sudan, Syria, and Russia,refused to ratify the 2002 Rome Treaty establishing The Hague-based ICC,which “has the power to prosecute individuals forwar crimes,genocide, and crimes against humanity,” The Independent wrote on Monday.Bolton added that he and President Donald Trumps administration believe the “central aim of the ICCs most vigorous supporters was to constrain the U.S.,” describing the international body designed to protect human rights as “freewheeling global organization governing over individuals without their consent.”President Donald Trump’s top national security aide, who joined the administration in April, said presumed oversight by the ICC over American activities puts soldiers, politicians, and private citizens” at risk.Bolton said that reports of abuses of detainees by American occupying forces wereutterly unfounded” and that the United States “will provide no cooperation to the ICC.”Bolton tried to spin American refusal to cooperate with the ICC as a defense of “patriots” merely doing their jobs, telling the Federalist Society:Literally any day now, the ICC may announce the start of a formal investigation against these American patriots, who voluntarily singed on to go into harm’s way to protect our nation, our homes, and our families in the wake of the 9-11 attacks.Bolton followed up with a message from the president.“The United States will use any means necessary to protect our citizens and our allies from unjust prosection from this illegitimate court,” Bolton warned. We will not cooperate with the ICC, we will provide no assistance to the ICC, and we certainly will not join the ICC.We will let the ICC die on its own. After all, for all intents and purposes, the ICC is already dead to us.”Bolton also said the United States could retaliate against any ICC investigationwith sanctions against ICC judges.Whos afraid of a walrus?—  Alexander Stable Genius Hamilton  (@AHamiltonSpirit) September 11, 2018Dolton is a lot like his boss.— Chuck Lewis (@Siarl1950) September 11, 2018Concerned citizens on social media struggled to understand what the administration’s problem with the ICC is, and why the United States is placing itself above the law.	Liberal
On September 11, 2001, Donald Trump, then just a New York real estate mogul, called into a New York TV news broadcast as the station aired footage of the World Trade Center attacks and claimed that his property at 40 Wall Street would now become the tallest building in the area.40 Wall Street actually was the second-tallest building in downtown Manhattan, and it was actually, before the World Trade Center, was the tallest  and then, when they built the World Trade Center, it became known as the second-tallest, he said. And now its the tallest,” Trump said to WWOR co-anchorBrenda Blackmon at the time.That claim turned out to be false: According to theCouncil on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, 70 Pine Street, at 952 feet, became the tallest building in the area after 9/11. Trump’s building at 40 Wall Street is 927 feet tall, 25 feet shorter than 70 Pine Street.Blackmon toldThe Washington Post yesterday that she’d been stunned by Trump’s braggadocio.[Trump spokesman Alan Marcus] dialed him up, and thats when [Trump] gave the answer he did, which stunned us at the time, Blackmon said to The Post. Any reaction I had, in the midst of everything that was happening, was, wow, thats insensitive. It just was.Marcus, nowpresident of the Marcus Group, a New Jersey-based public relations firm, said:I didnt like his line about having the biggest building in downtown.But thats just how he talked.By Donalds standards, he was probably very good. He was trying to behave.Trump’s interview resurfaces each year, and the reactions this yearones of digustare no different.This made me physically ill https://t.co/hkQTky0nlK— Lauren Wolfe (@Wolfe321) September 11, 2018On 9/11/01, as the debris was still warm and thousands were dead or missing, Trump gave an interview about the horrors of the day as a Manhattan resident and businessperson. When asked whether his building at 40 Wall Street had suffered any damage, this was his response: pic.twitter.com/ogWcDLioGl— Kingdome Turf (@KingdomeTurf) September 11, 2018Trumps reaction to 9/11 perfectly embodies who he is: he lied about Muslims celebrating the attack in an effort to vilify; he bragged about the size of his building; and he took $ meant to help small businesses devastated by the attack in a show of greed https://t.co/VbG0FsYXAM— Michelle (@Michell82968785) September 11, 2018Lest we ever forgetTallest buildingSmallest hearthttps://t.co/t5L3IYLXjb— The Emerald Serpent (@Izmeina666) September 11, 2018Trump would come under fire in 2015 after claiming that he witnessed Muslims celebrating the 9/11 attacks.“Hey, I watched when the World Trade Center came tumbling down. And I watched in Jersey City, New Jersey, where thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering,” he said at a rally in Alabama at the time.Trump doubled down on the claim when pressed by ABC’s George Stephanopoulos, but reports of celebrations by Muslims in Jersey City are unconfirmed and uncorroborated.In 2011, he claimed he’d foreseen the attacks, and even written about his premonition in one of his books.I predicted the 9/11 attack on America in my book "The America We Deserve" and the collapse of Iraq in @TimeToGetTough.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 29, 2011On the 12th anniversary of the attacks, he quoted himself, saying that he “would like to extend my best wishes to all, even the haters and losers, on this special date.”@realDonaldTrump: I would like to extend my best wishes to all, even the haters and losers, on this special date, September 11th.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2013But that was all before he became president. Today, as president, Trump has garnered criticism for continuing to rail against Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian subversion of the 2016 presidential election.	Liberal
Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia returned to a familiar theme in a new campaign ad. In it, Manchin totes a shotgun out to a field and takes aim at something he says will hurt the people of West Virginia.The target? A lawsuit filed by the Justice Department and a cadre of Republican Attorneys General from 20 states. Among them are Manchin’s opponent, West Virginia Attorney GeneralPatrick Morrisey.The lawsuit seeks to overturn protections in the Affordable Care Actor Obamacarefor pre-existing conditions.The AGs argue the ACA is unconstitutional after Congress eliminated the individual mandate with the GOP tax bill passed in 2017.Watch Manchin’s ad here:The incumbent Democrat also posted the new ad to his Twitter account, with the message:“Patrick Morrisey’s lawsuit would take away health care from people with pre-existing conditions. That’s just dead wrong, and that ain’t gonna happen.”“Pat’s lawsuit would take away health care coverage for 800,000 West Virginians with common pre-existing conditions like diabetes, arthritis, and high blood pressure. That’s not our West Virginia values.”Patrick Morrisey’s lawsuit would take away health care from people with pre-existing conditions. That’s just dead wrong, and that ain’t gonna happen. pic.twitter.com/QFTSZGnmdK Joe Manchin (@JoeManchinWV) September 10, 2018Pat’s lawsuit would take away health care coverage for 800,000 West Virginians with common pre-existing conditions like diabetes, arthritis, and high blood pressure. That’s not our West Virginia values. pic.twitter.com/641ejGewff Joe Manchin (@JoeManchinWV) September 10, 2018In 2010during Manchin’s first campaign for Senatehe released a similar ad with a different target. That time the recipient of his shotgun blast was an anti-coal cap-and-trade bill supported by Democrats and then President Barack Obama.Manchin was Governor when West Virginia Democratic Senator Robert Byrd died. Manchin appointed a successor then ran in a special election and won the seat in 2010. He ran again in 2012, without employing his shotgun.Manchin’s new ad serves a dual purpose, just as it did in 2010. In that earlier election, Manchin wished to show the people of West Virginia he would buck his own party in their interests. Now, in 2018, Manchin addresses the shortcomings of his opponent through blasting the lawsuit he joined.But the other, more subtle purpose is to illustrate Manchin’s commitment to sensible gun ownership and use by his constituents. In other words, Manchin is a supporter of the right to bear arms responsibly. That point is driven home by numerous posts on his Twitter feed.Pat, we know you are new to West Virginia and have never had a hunting license, but we can teach you how to hold a gun properly. #wvsen #wvpol pic.twitter.com/eG1BPGmmK6 Joe Manchin (@JoeManchinWV) September 6, 2018Back in March, in the wake of hearings after the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, Manchin said:“It’s not gun control, it’s gun sense.”The Senator referred to a bill he co-sponsored a bill in 2013 with Republican Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. The legislation would have established a database of those prohibited from owning guns while expanding nationwide background checks.Manchin hoped to revive the legislation in 2018, but was blocked by the GOP. In June, Manchin told ABC:“I’m more concerned right now about pre-existing conditions. I’m more concerned about 800,000 West Virginians losing their ability to have insurance or buy insurance because they’ve been sick. Something’s wrong here, we’ve gotta change that.”Reactions to Manchin’s ad on social media however rarely addressed the ad itself as the following messages to Manchin show.	Liberal
Former Republican Massachusetts governor and Utah U.S. Senate candidate Mitt Romney tore into the Republican Party on Monday over the federal budget deficit and national debt, both of which are ballooning under President Donald Trump and the GOP-led Congress.The interest paid last year by American taxpayers on our $21 trillion debt was nearly $300 billion. With a booming economy, we should be shrinking the deficit, not growing it. https://t.co/4SL21FXRJZ— Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) September 10, 2018“Republicans have been shouting about this as long as I can remember. We called for an amendment to balance the budget,” Romney said on his Senate campaign website. “Just a few years ago, the Tea Party movement brought new energy to the issue. But now that Republicans are in charge in Washington, we appear to have become silent about deficits and debt.”Romney called out his own party – which has traditionally been on the hawkish side when it comes to budgetary matters – for allowing the deficit to explode and the national debt to continue to surpass a staggering $21 trillion.“The interest paid last year by American taxpayers on that debt was nearly $300 billion,” the 2012 Republican presidential nominee wrote. “Credible forecasts estimate that we will be paying $700 billion in interest in just a few years.”Last month the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office released itsfindingsindicating that the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act combined with increased spending will drive the deficit up to $793 billion by the end of 2018 and will push it to $1 trillion next year  a 20 percent increase over 2017s $666 billion deficit.Thedeficitin 2016 was $587 billion and increased to $666 billion in 2017, Trumps first year in office.Over the next decade, the CBO predicts an additional $1.9 trillion budget shortfall, thanks to Trump’s tax cuts and additional spending.Romney added that in 2017, “the government took in $3 trillion and it spent $4 trillion.”“The extra trillion was borrowed from other countries, institutions, and individuals, and we will pay them billions in interest on their loans every year,” he said.Romney finished by saying: “With a booming economy, full employment, a soaring stock market, and record asset values, we should be shrinking the deficit, not growing it.”Twitter joined Romney in slamming Trump and the GOP’s resounding hypocrisy.Yes. That would require not giving a trillion dollar debt powered stimulus to an economy that was already strong and near full employment. But all GOP voted in favor against any rationale economic theory. Hail to the thief.— (((jberkley17)))  (@jberkley17) September 10, 2018Don't worry Trump knows how to bankrupt companies and then buy back debt at 10c to the dollar.— Andrey Supranonok (@ASupranonok) September 10, 2018Guess they should've considered that before passing a huge tax cut for the rich.— TheWellArmedLiberal (@HaileyWheelgun) September 10, 2018— Mally_B (@Mahelia_B) September 10, 2018I agree!— Tom Stoy (@Stentor50) September 10, 2018Absolutely!!— Michele Grigaitis (@Mgrigaitis) September 10, 2018Oh you mean the way Republicans used to think?— C Couture (@Igardn) September 10, 2018Romey was not spared some wrath, however, as he is extraordinarily rich and stands to benefit from Republican tax breaks.	Liberal
After President Donald Trump tweeted the false claim that the United States’ Gross Domestic Product was higher than the unemployment rate for the first time in over a century, Kevin Hassett, the White House Chief Economic Advisor took to the podium to walk back the president’s statements.It was an awkward exchange.White House chief economic adviser Kevin Hassett contradicts President Trump's tweet falsely stating that GDP growth has exceeded the unemployment rate for the first time in over 100 years. Hassett says it's 10 years  https://t.co/KrFMGb2jDV pic.twitter.com/bGRSD69RvF— CBS News (@CBSNews) September 10, 2018When a journalist asked Hassett why Trump made claims that were “just not true,” Hassett responded, “I can tell you what is true,” which was inadvertently met with laughter from reporters.Hassett continued:Let me just say, the history of thought of how errors happen is not something i can engage in, because from the initial fact to what the president said, that I don’t know the whole chain of command, but what is true is that it’s the highest in 10 years, and at some point somebody probably conveyed it to him, adding a zero and they shouldn’t have done that.”The statement wasn’t exactly well received.um, no they didn't Mr. Hassett – Biff added the extra zero all on his own. https://t.co/YeAaNScvFB— Judie Schill (@ajsnini) September 10, 2018Kevin Hassett sounded like a fool, saying that the timeline was 10 years and someone must have mistakenly added a zero!! Could that someone possibly have been the Orange Moron?— NeverMyPrez (@kene0222) September 10, 2018I dunno, I think itll be forgiven. He blamed the mistake on a pretend staffer adding a zeroNOT Trump.Kevin went out and lied, saying everything was due to Trump and shat on Obama. Hassett just passed his loyalty test, bigly.— Jonny Pullen (@JonnyPullen) September 10, 201810…100…1000!Theyre just numbers. Theyre all the same.— Matthew Gellert (@MatthewGellert) September 10, 2018To Hassett’s credit, he did make one statement rarely heard from Trump advisors:When the press finds mistakes…We don’t like making them but we are grateful to have them pointed out because we want to correct them.”The economy is a sensitive subject for the Trump White House. On one hand, job growth and a stable economy has been the main talking point of an administration that, at times, seems barely able to stay afloat. Yet those within it, especially Donald Trump, can’t admit that it’s largely due to the previous president, often leading the administration to misrepresent the origins of the progress made during Obama’s and Trump’s tenures.	Liberal
President Donald Trump spends much of his time and energy on public adoration. Likely a holdover from his years bolstering the Trump brand to maximize profits, his rallies are carefully crafted to ensure only supporters gain access or are allowed on camera.The 45th President holds court on stage or at Mar-a-Lago or in private dinners at the White House with only those who revere him. Trump also loves tweeting numbers. If there is a number he can boast about on his Twitter feed, he can and will.Although, not always accurately or honestly as the pushback on his recent post about theGDP rate,unemployment and a 100 year record attests.But one area where numbers consistently prove unkind to Trump are polls. Specifically polls assessing the public’s approval of the job the President is doing. And in the latest poll fromQuinnipiac University, Trump continues to fare poorly.Only 38 percent of voters gave the President a favorable job approval rating versus 54 percent disapproval and 8 percent without an opinion. His approval dropped from 41 percent in mid August. However only 27 percent strongly approve of Trump’s job performancedown from 30 percent in Augustwhile 48 percent strongly disapproveshowing no change since August.A just released poll from CNN/SSRS provided similar approval numbers.Breaking: New CNN/SSRS Poll:Trump approval: 36% Trump unfavorable: 61% Trump honest & trustworthy: 32% Proud of Trump as POTUS: 32% Cares about people like you: 36% Trump will unite country: 30% Respects rule of law: 37% Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) September 10, 2018For deeper insight into voter perception of specific aspects of the President’s character, a series of nine questions were asked by Quinnipiac. Respondents could answer yes, they felt Trump had the trait, or no, they felt he lacked the characteristic. Those with no opinion were classified as DK for “don’t know.”On September 10, Quinnipiac asked, in this order:Only the question of the President’s mental stability failed to garner half of voters to either side of the question, with 48 percent feeling he was stable and 42 percent seeing him as unstable.And Quinnipiac’s poll gave Trump a few passing marks. 57 percent saw the President as a strong person and 51 percent considered him intelligent.However higher numbers saw poor character traits in Trump. 55 percent thought the president fails to care for average Americans. 55 percent also thought Trump unfit to serve as President while 57 percent said he lacked leadership skills.60 percent found the President dishonest as well as 60 percent who thought he did not share their values. And a full 65 percent said Trump is not level headed.Quinnipiac saved the following questionsabout overall satisfaction with the state of the United States as well as current issues facing the Presidentuntil after their voter assessment of the man himself.	Liberal
In the wee hours of Monday morning, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to make the dubious claim that GDP was higher than the unemployment rate for the first time in 100 years.The GDP Rate (4.2%) is higher than the Unemployment Rate (3.9%) for the first time in over 100 years!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 10, 2018Surprising exactlynobody,it turns out that claim is not true.In fact, the GDP has surpassed the unemployment rate 185 times since 1948, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.An analysis in the New York Times on Monday identified recentinstances in which GDP was higher than unemployment.Fact Check: President Trump falsely claimed GDP growth is higher than unemployment "for the first time in 100 years." It has actually happened at least 185 times in the past century. https://t.co/UQqdDuvtlF— The New York Times (@nytimes) September 10, 2018“Most recently, in the first quarter of 2006, the gross domestic product grew at a rate of 5.4 percent,” the Times writes, “while the unemployment rate was 4.7 percent in January, 4.8 percent in February and 4.7 percent in March.”In September 1950, the Times notes, GDP surged to 16.9 percent, while unemployment was at 4.4 percent, which is the largest positive gap ever achieved. And in Q2 1978, GDP reached 16.4 percent as unemployment held at 5.77 percent.Fox News helpfully tweeted this factcheck:Since 1948, there have been 63 quarters with a GDP growth rate higher than avg quarterly unemployment rateRecent Quarters with GDP Growth higher than Unemployment Rate:Q2 2018Q1 2006Q3 2003Q2 2000Q4 1999Q3 1999Q4 1998Q3 1998Q3 1997Q2 1997Q2 1996 https://t.co/xc873PMf6K— Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) September 10, 2018Which had people howling:OMG! FOX NEWS just fact checked Donald Trump…. it's ALL lies!— Daniel! Ray  (@TheDaniel_Ray) September 10, 2018Dont let your boss see this!!!!!! Youre fact checking him!— J S-H (@minardiforever) September 10, 2018Hell hath frozen over.— Grandma Muses  (@GrandmaMuses) September 10, 2018Others on Twitter dragged the president for making such an obviously false claim.In the last several decades, GDP has been higher than unemployment dozens of times. “Close enough?” Definitely not.This has happened 64 times in the past 70 years. https://t.co/stTx47H8Zi https://t.co/76gBJsiAW2— Frank Luntz (@FrankLuntz) September 10, 2018Yeah, but 64 of the past 70 years have been once in a century type years.— Mark Hampton (@MarkHamptonHK) September 10, 2018This happened in 1941, 42, 43, 44, 48, 50, 51, 52, 53, 55, 59, 62, 64, 65, 66, 68, 72, 73, 98, 99, and 2000. So yeah, its the 22nd time in 79 years, not the first time in 100 years, but close enough.— Jonathan Skolnick (@jonskolnick) September 10, 2018“Why you gotta lie all the time?”Actually it isn't the first time in over 100 years, not even close. Why you gotta lie all the time?  You know we can fact check this bullshit, right?  Why don't you just admit you're a fucking liar and #resign?— Bonoboism (@Bonoboism) September 10, 2018You are an outright liar.A psychotic pathological liar. trump lives in a fake world, with fake facts, makes up lies & says only what will make him look good. The only place this fake world exist is in his head. trump is pure evil & a liar. All detrimental for us & USA.#VoteDem— S Turner (@sandyturner01) September 10, 2018He doesn’t cite sources because a lie can’t be proven.	Liberal
Speaking on MSNBC on Sunday, Omarosa Manigault Newman, President Donald Trump’s former friend and White House employee, said White House staff regularly used the hashtag #TFA in private messages whenever the president, known for his thin skin and volatile temper, acted particularly unhinged.The hashtag refers to the Twenty-Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, which would allow Vice President Mike Pence along with Trump’s cabinet to initiate a process laid out in the Constitution by which they would attempt to remove the president from office.“We had a little hashtag, #TFA, which, now that I think about it, I’m a little embarrassed to tell youhow often; when I went through my text chains from the White House, I saw the hashtag #tfa25th Amendment, she said.” Manigault Newman toldMSNBCs Alex Witt, adding:Whenever [Trump] did something that was just so insane and so crazy and unhinged, when he would flip positions from one hour to the next, wed just hashtag at #tfa and wed keep moving.Omarosa says on MSNBC that staffers would text each other #tfa  meaning 25th Amendment  whenever President Trump did something "crazy" or "unhinged." She says it occurred more than 100 times. pic.twitter.com/1LVPxcMkWA— Axios (@axios) September 9, 2018“So it’s a hashtag, potentially,” Witt responded. “Who would be aware of this?”“If you work in proximity with Donald Trump and you provide a decision memo for him, then these are individuals who know that something very, very strange is going on with the President of the United States,” Manigault Newman replied, “and everyone who works in those positionsthat’s why the definition of our senior staff is so keyif you have the opportunity to brief him, advise him or provide any guidance to the President of the United States, that person is considered senior staff, and I hate to admit it, but that was kind of the hashtag that went around a lot in the White House.”“And this #TFA: would it be in text? Would it be in emails?” Witt asked.“I went through my texts very closely,” Manigault Newman said, adding that she went through her correspondence “very closely” while preparing to write her book,Unhinged: An Insider’s Account of the Trump White House, “and I can tell you it occurred in my text chains with family members, with staffers, with people who were in the agencies more than a hundred times, and I have those text chains and at the time it was kind of a way that we coped but it’s not funny, you know, the fact that that was something that was discussed.”Others didn’t find it very funny either…Omarosa should get credit for leaving and blowing the whistle . She has brought the receipts and before Woodward did— Stephen Dulaney (@stephendulaney) September 9, 2018And what did they DO about it? Nothing.— SandyBeall#Resist (@bluedgal) September 9, 2018This White House, led by Trump, is completely dysfunctional. Beyond belief.— Elihu Smails (@JudgeEli) September 9, 2018…but Manigault Newman’s admission did cause #TFA to trend on Twitter, in turn intensifying calls for the president’s impeachment.I'd hate to distract Trump from his golf game today by getting #tfa trending. https://t.co/d0QIu7ayhS— Patrick S. Tomlinson (@stealthygeek) September 9, 2018Everyone should just respond  #TFA  to all @realDonaldTrump  s tweets.— RRCIV (@rrciv_ndalum) September 9, 2018Reality check, claimed letter canceling #Korean trade deal taken from desk. @realDonaldTrump says never happened. SO…. where is letter he signed? They cant replace it, that would prove he lied AGAIN. The #child president must be removed #TFA— J.P. (@JLP20) September 10, 2018.@RealDonaldTrump is especially manic today, tweeting demented memes from lunatic sycophants, then retweeting himself. I wonder if his staff is texting the 911 hashtag #TFA right about now? #25thAmendmentNow #MondayMotivation #AnnulTrumpPresidency— Lesley Abravanel (@lesleyabravanel) September 10, 2018Manigault Newman’s admission comes amid a whirlwind week for the Trump administration. The publication ofanonymous op-ed, titled I Am Part of the Resistance Inside the Trump Administration, has caused Trump to lash out in search of the writer, who wrote:	Liberal
In January 2019, the United States House of Representatives gets a new House Speaker. A new Speaker of the House is a sure thing because the incumbent, Republican Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, announced his retirement. But before he goes, multimillionaire Ryan plans to propose a few more tax cuts.In preparation for the 2018 midterm elections, House Republicans intend to announce further tax cuts aimed at bolstering the economy, or at least the finances of the wealthy and large corporations like their previous cuts.Despite vows the prior GOP tax cuts would filter down and create more jobs and higher wages, workers saw little or no increases in wages while corporations saw increased profits created by using their tax breaks to buy back their own stocks rather than creating new jobs or increasing worker salaries and benefits.The previous tax cuts also put the United States on track for record setting deficits. To combat the budget shortfalls created by their cuts for wealthy citizens and corporations, Republicans made or proposed cuts to veterans services, social security and medicare and other social safety net programs that serve the poorest citizens.Despite their previous cuts earning the nickname “GOP tax scam” on social media, the Republican Party still sees pushing for further cuts to upper income and corporate taxes, the higher deficit and threatened cuts to veterans and social programs, as their best strategy headed into November’s midterms.They already began their social media push touting the benefits with the hashtag #BetterOffNow.We must say, #taxreform is pretty sweet. https://t.co/LU28D07CIo House Republicans (@HouseGOP) September 9, 2018People are hopeful again, theyre optimistic about their futures, and theyre #BetterOffNow. pic.twitter.com/m4YQ6HzohI House Republicans (@HouseGOP) September 9, 2018Matt Gormanspokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committeesaid:“Anytime were talking about tax cuts and the growing economy, were winning.”But does the GOP have the votes they need to push through more tax cuts?They require 216 Representatives for approval, but with everyone in the House of Representatives up for reelection in November, some GOP members may be reluctant to tow the party line. Unlike the Senate with staggered six year terms of office resulting in only a third of the chamber being up for reelection each cycle, the House’s two year terms means all 435 seats get put up for grabs every two years.And that 100 percent turnover potential makes a difference.	Liberal
Veteran journalist Bob Woodward took to the Today Show to promote his new bookFear: Trump in the White House which hits shelves tomorrow.The book, based on hundreds of hours of taped interviews and leaked documents, paints a portrait of a president drowning, with his staff believing him so incompetent that he can’t be trusted to run the country.OnToday, Woodward described what he’d gleaned from the many interviews, saying that out of the eight or nine presidents he’d covered over his lifetime, he’d never seen one more detached from reality.Bob Woodward: Ive never seen an instance when the president is so detached from the reality of whats going on. pic.twitter.com/I0jZGc2zxx— FORTIS (@fortismind) September 10, 2018Woodward continued:This has not been treated seriously enough. The things  some of the things  that Trump did and does jeopardizes the real national security.”When it comes to journalistic integrity, few are held in higher regard than Bob Woodward, whose reporting with Carl Bernstein atThe Washington Post was instrumental in uncovering the Watergate scandal.That didn’t stop Trump from attempting to assail Woodward’s credibility.The Woodward book is a Joke – just another assault against me, in a barrage of assaults, using now disproven unnamed and anonymous sources. Many have already come forward to say the quotes by them, like the book, are fiction. Dems cant stand losing. Ill write the real book!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 10, 2018It is mostly anonymous sources in here, why should anyone trust you? General Mattis, General Kelly said its not true. @SavannahGuthrie @TODAYshow  Bob Woodward is a liar who is like a Dem operative prior to the Midterms. He was caught cold, even by NBC.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 10, 2018This is hardly the first time he’s taken to Twitter to disparage Woodward and the book.Todaycovered his words against it as well.https://twitter.com/706am/status/1039153513828376576Despite Trump’s efforts to purge Woodward’s influence, it seems like most are on Woodward’s side.Im buying this Woodward book today. It really pisses Trump off to the point of being unhinged.— Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) September 10, 2018Sorry! Woodward is an acclaimed professional writer. I think Ill believe him over you.— Leonard Decant (@LeonardDecant) September 10, 2018Lets count how many times youve lied or distorted facts and how many times Bob Woodward has done the same.  Woodward is a trusted journalist whom even you described as fair.  Youre a narcissist who lies constantly and cant accept an obvious truth: youre a horrible leader!— Jeff Cruz (@guahanjeff) September 10, 2018Bob Woodward is way more credible than you will ever beYour caught with your pants down again Mr #LiarInChief— Gary C (@not4URCause) September 10, 2018However, Trump’s efforts to invalidate the book hardly began with theTodayinterview.	Liberal
On Sunday, North Korea held a military parade and a massive celebration to mark 70 years since becoming a nation. Notably, the parade had a conspicuous omission: no inter-continental ballistic missiles were featured in the parade as they usually are.So predictably, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to hail the move as a triumph of his own diplomatic efforts with Kim Jong Un:North Korea has just staged their parade, celebrating 70th anniversary of founding, without the customary display of nuclear missiles. Theme was peace and economic development. Experts believe that North Korea cut out the nuclear missiles to show President Trump……— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 9, 2018…its commitment to denuclearize. @FoxNews  This is a big and very positive statement from North Korea. Thank you To Chairman Kim. We will both prove everyone wrong! There is nothing like good dialogue from two people that like each other! Much better than before I took office.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 9, 2018The news from the U.S, intelligence community, however, shows that the president’s reaction is rather naive.The latest evidence from U.S. intelligence indicates that Kim has not ceased his nation’s nuclear weapons program and has “escalated efforts to conceal its nuclear activity,” according to three senior U.S. officials. They say that since the June 12 Singapore summit between Kim and Trump, North Korea has erected structures to conceal the entrance to at least one warhead facility.The Trump administration has launched a “maximum pressure” campaign against North Korea in response.But the president isn’t acting as if he’s received the memo. A few days prior, Trump praised Kim for having “unwavering faith” in him.Kim Jong Un of North Korea proclaims unwavering faith in President Trump. Thank you to Chairman Kim. We will get it done together!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 6, 2018Given the confirmation that North Korea’s nuclear weapons program continues unabated, Trump is being called out for claiming a premature victory.North Korea has just staged their parade, celebrating 70th anniversary of founding, and Trump is gullible enough to believe the absence of nuclear missiles means he won.Experts agree that North Korea cut out the nuclear missiles to show President Trump is a gullible clown!— Donood J. Twump (@WealDonoodTwump) September 9, 2018So why are they continuing their nuclear research program?  Pompeo was basically rebuffed by NK.  Quit drinking the Kool Aid you narcissistic fool— Bill Y (@bill_york10) September 9, 2018Actually, theyve never staged a parade with nuclear missiles. Sure, they have had missiles in their parades, but they hadnt yet developed the capability to integrate nuclear payloads. This is nothing to be excited about, its calculated to manipulate Trump. It worked.— Tom  Cordent  (@PoxNewsCEO) September 9, 2018OMG. Youre such a loser. Two people that like each other? He poisoned his half-brother, killed his uncle with an anti-aircraft gun, and oversees a regime where thousands of children die of starvation in labor camps. Hes as brutal as they come.— cr elon  (@christophelston) September 10, 2018So the president of the US just stated he likes dictators who control the press, and kill anyone in their way But lets talk about someone kneeling — Tipsy Tiffany (@mandiejo35) September 10, 2018With access to a sophisticated and comprehensive intelligence service, the president of the world's most powerful nation chooses instead to delinquently rely on media opinion pieces rather then his own dedicated professionals— Odd Mr Nuptal (@DumpTonlard) September 10, 2018A spokesperson for the National Security Council said Trumpis personally directing the Trump administration’s pressure campaign against North Korea.The president closely directs every aspect of the administration’s DPRK policy including the negotiations and the pressure campaign. He is clear-eyed about the challenges and sees this as a unique and fleeting opportunity to use diplomacy to achieve our objectives,” they said.The production of nuclear weapons isn’t the only way North Korea is defying its agreements with the United States. NBC confirmed last week that China “escalated both legal and illegal trade with North Korea since the Singapore summit, in defiance of sanctions”:From coal shipments to revived construction projects to planes ferrying Chinese tourists to Pyongyang,Chinahas reopened the door to both legal and illegal trade with the North, throwing the North Korean government a vital lifeline while derailing U.S. diplomacy.North Koreadepends almost entirely on its larger neighbor to keep its economy afloat.An international coalition which includes military ships from the U.S.,U.K., France, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and South Korea, has patrolled waters for months and a senior U.S. official says the coalition would soon begin to publicly denounce those who violate sanctions at sea.ButJames Faeh, a former Pentagon desk officer focused on Korea, says more sanctions would not get North Korea to denuclearize.This is highly unlikely to work,” he said. “Keeping pressure on North Korea in a tangible way is the right path forward, but that has to involve outreach to other countries in the region and holding their feet to the fire about their cooperation with the brutal North Korean regime.”	Liberal
Vice President Mike Pence on Sunday said it was “very disappointing” to see former President Barack Obama hitting the campaign trail for Democrats ahead of the midterm elections.“It was very disappointing to see President Obama break with the tradition of former presidents, and become so political,” Pence told Chris Wallace on Fox News Sunday. “The American people in 2016 rejected the policy and direction of Barack Obama when they elected President Donald Trump.”.@VP tells Chris: "it was very disappointing to see President Obama break with the tradition of former presidents, and become so political…the American people in 2016 rejected the policy and direction of Barack Obama when they elected President Donald Trump."Full intv Sunday. pic.twitter.com/WMNDwn93OX— FoxNewsSunday (@FoxNewsSunday) September 8, 2018Pence’s remarks drew stiff rebuke on social media.Former Republican strategist Steve Schmidt, who left the GOP because of President Donald Trump, fired back at Pence, calling him the country’s “most titanic fraud and quisling” and asking “what it would take for Trump to disappoint.”Mike Pence, Americas most titanic fraud and quisling is disappointed in Barack Obama talking to the American People about the assault on our democracy being led by the man for whom Pences slobbering servility knows no bounds. I wonder what it would take for Trump to disappoint https://t.co/KvjjaSP7ZR— Steve Schmidt (@SteveSchmidtSES) September 9, 2018 pic.twitter.com/PxxxHqe9ua— MOTR Politics (@MOTRPolitics1) September 9, 2018quislingslobbering servility@SteveSchmidtSES ,  your vocabulary makes me swoon.— Cameron Steele (@Voyager19) September 10, 2018Actor Bradley Whitford, who starred in Aaron Sorkin’s political epicThe West Wing, took a jab at the administration’s policy of separating children from their parents at the U.S.-Mexican border.“Imagine how disappointed Jesus is to have people who call themselves Christians tearing children away from their mothers,” Whitford wrote.Aw…. Imagine how disappointed Jesus is to have people who call themselves Christians tearing children away from their mothers. https://t.co/ghnBMqPvuj— Bradley Whitford (@WhitfordBradley) September 9, 2018He wasn’t alone.Putting kids in cages, promoting racism and inequality, taking from the poor to give to the rich, polluting and destroying the environment for profit, putting money and power above all else… There's a lot for Jesus to take issue with here, @VP— Frostreads (@Frostreads) September 9, 2018I was wondering how, "Jesus Pleaser" (@LastWeekTonight ), was living with himself doing something as unchristian as separating children from their parents… maybe he's pro religion, but denounces the teachings of his lord…?— Geek Eclectic (@TheGeekEclectic) September 9, 2018400 under the age of 5 in cages? Whose monsters are they creating?— Diane S. Baker (@dianesbaker1) September 10, 2018There were some poignant zingers lobbed at Pence too.Disappointing? Norman Bates is VP and hes disappointed in Obama?  Ooookay — a_wonderful_whit (@alixia_whit) September 9, 2018Nope pic.twitter.com/Gr9J2yS0VM— MIKE (@trumpanhator) September 9, 2018Mike Pence calls Obama "disappointing" for speaking out when Trump ran the racist birther lie about Obama for 8 years…I mean, anyone associated with Donald Trump is deplorable to the core.— Laurie Crosswell (@lauriecrosswell) September 10, 2018The blowback kept on coming.Obama was recently voted the “best president in our lifetime.”Poll: Americans consider Barack Obama the greatest president of their lifetimes https://t.co/LiX3DsjEOz pic.twitter.com/VrijkAdifL— Jonathan Chait (@jonathanchait) July 11, 2018@vp you are very disappointing— DM Johnson (@dawnomj) September 8, 2018Disappointing is having a president who is “racist, sexist, dishonest, divisive and corrupt,” coupled with the “@GOP failing to hold him accountable.”Mike Pence: Its disappointing to see Barack Obama be so political.Hey @mike_pence the real disappointment is seeing @realDonaldTrump be so racist, sexist, dishonest, divisive and corrupt, and the @GOP failing to hold him accountable.— Ryan Knight  (@ProudResister) September 9, 2018Much of the country has been disappointed since November 8, 2016.Mike Pence says he is disappointed that Pres Obama broke with tradition by speaking out against Trump.Sorry @VP . Traditions went out the window the day the amoral ignorant traitor entered the WH. Welcome back, Barack!— Andrew Goss USAF (@Goss30Goss) September 9, 2018Its very disappointing that Trump, in the tradition of former Presidents, never released his tax returns.— Kim Newsome (@kimbanewsome) September 9, 2018Let’s not forget who won the popular vote.Talk about alternative facts!! The American people cast more votes for @HillaryClinton NOT @realDonaldTrump. The electoral college was weighted in his favor. Your administration does not represent the American people. Thank God Obama stepped up. Someone had to.— Beth D'Amato (@BethD2600) September 8, 2018He does know more people voted for Hillary, right?  By the archaic and unfortunate electoral college, Trump won, but people didnt reject Obama. Theyd elect him again.  Pence is nauseating.— Steve (@Nimrod247) September 8, 2018Not really rejected. Three million more Americans voted Dem.— carlo atzeni (@realAtzeniCarlo) September 9, 2018@VP Re: the American people in 2016 rejected the policy and direction of Barack Obama when they elected President Donald Trump. No, Mike… The MAJORITY of the American people didnt elect Trump.— PeaceLovingHippie (@HippieVeganDude) September 9, 2018But the majority of Americans voted for Clinton not Trump!— Lon Minier (@phototechcsj) September 9, 2018The majority did not reject the policies of President Obama, as you might recall— Brian (@lonestarpdx) September 9, 2018Obama has the right to say what he wants.@VP Pence / Trump must realize Obama does not need their permission to talk to Americans; especially when Obama is sounding the alarm of how Trump and his administration are destroying our democracy. Obama stress the importance of voting & being engaged in the political process.— Brenda Lawrence (@BrendaL03778178) September 10, 2018Aww too bad .  So the former president is criticizing the administration. I say deal . He has the right— Kaeli AKA Cylla Ren  (@kaelinda_genX) September 9, 2018Yea, @VP,  so disappointingly Obama is using his free speech voice….in other news,  president 45 criticizes president 44 multiple times a day since elected,  with lies, falsehoods and other made up stuff.— b maison (@beverlymaison) September 9, 2018Unlike his predecessor George W. Bush, who has maintained a low profile since leaving office, Obama is getting involved in his party’s effort to retake Congress. On Friday, the 44th president torchedTrump and the RepublicanParty for their brand of divisive, nativist politics, though Trump was not mentioned by name.	Liberal
On the final day of Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s hearing in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) continued her vociferous opposition to Kavanaugh’s appointment.This time, she did so in a tweet:Brett Kavanaugh coached Bush's judicial nominees to give the same kind of vague answers he gave us on Roe v. Wade this week. We have the receipts. pic.twitter.com/gATpnkDyL0— Kamala Harris (@SenKamalaHarris) September 7, 2018The previously confidential 2002 email sees associate counsel to then-President George W. Bush seeking input from Kavanaugh, his colleague at the time, on how Bush-nominated Judge Priscilla Owen should answer questions on controversial issues from Democrats who believed her to be too conservative.Kavanaugh’s reply?She should not talk about her views on specific policy or legal issues. She should say she has a commitment to follow Supreme Court precedent, that she understands and appreciates the role of a circuit judge, that she will adhere to statutory text, that she has no ideological agenda.”To anyone keeping up with the hearing over the last three days, Kavanaugh’s advice may seem eerily familiar.Judge Kavanaugh’s ambiguous stance onRoe v. Wade, the historic 1973 Supreme Court case that upheld a woman’s right to terminate her pregnancy, has been unsettling to many Americans and remains at the forefront of the numerous hesitations to confirm him. His repeated refusal to give a clear answer on the issue has only exacerbated these concerns..@SenBlumenthal just asked Brett Kavanaugh: Can you commit, here today, to never overturning Roe v. Wade? Kavanaugh refused. #SaveRoe #WhatsAtStake #StopKavanaugh pic.twitter.com/g1MtUwrlTY— Alliance for Justice (@AFJustice) September 5, 2018Brett Kavanaugh tells Sen. Feinstein that Roe v. Wade is an important precedent of the court: "As best I can, I always try, and I do hear, of the real-world effects of that decision as I try to do of all the decisions of my court and of the Supreme Court." https://t.co/irsDUUh69l pic.twitter.com/QQZ0Pigvsg— CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) September 6, 2018Kavanaugh has clung to precedent on a vast array of issues over the course of the hearing, but his evasiveness onRoe v. Wadehas rightly taken center stage. Yet another email shows that Kavanaugh’s reverence for precedent may only extend to Senate Judiciary hearings:I am not sure that all legal scholars refer to Roe as the settled law of the land at the Supreme Court level since Court can always overrule its precedent, and three current Justices on the Court would do so.These statements, for many, have rendered his answers in the hearing useless, especially for Senator Harris.Now the American people know what we know. We have every reason to believe Kavanaugh will overturn Roe v. Wade. https://t.co/P4vEFdIezk— Kamala Harris (@SenKamalaHarris) September 6, 2018Here is the leaked email in which Kavanaugh clearly states he does not believe Roe v. Wade is "settled law." He lied to @SenatorCollins. What will she do now? #mepolitics pic.twitter.com/Lvs3Vsa7Xp— Topher Spiro (@TopherSpiro) September 6, 2018Why is Brett Kavanaugh willing to say that U.S. v. Nixon was correctly decided but is not willing to say the same thing about Roe v. Wade?— Renato Mariotti (@renato_mariotti) September 6, 2018If Brett Kavanaugh becomes a Supreme Court justice, will he help gut or overturn Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion in America? Yes, of course he will.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 5, 2018Judge Kavanaugh: – Doesnt believe Roe v. Wade is settled law– Acknowledges it could be overturned– Called birth control an abortion-inducing drug— Senator Patty Murray (@MurrayCampaign) September 7, 2018In the face of these unsettling statements, Kamala Harris has been unrelenting in getting to the bottom of Kavanaugh’s stances on women’s rights.	Liberal
Many peopleeven those who follow Washington politicsmay not know who Kevin Hassett is, but his name is getting notice now. While everyone tries to discern the identity of the anonymous “senior official in the Trump administration…whose job would be jeopardized by its disclosure” who wrote the now infamous OpEd for The New York Times, Hassett’s name came up.Kevin Allen Hassett is an American economist and Chairman of the President’s Council of Economic Advisers. Prior to the OpEd mystery, Hassett was best known for his work on tax policy and for co-authoring the 1999 book Dow 36,000.One thing Hassett is not, however, is the author of that New York Times OpEd titled “I Am Part of the Resistance Inside the Trump Administration.” And Hassett is willing to go to extraordinary lengths to prove it.In an on camerainterview with YAHOO! Finance, Hassett told The New York Times:“So,The New York Times, if you’re listening, if someone told you I wrote the piece, then you’re allowed to announce that publicly.”Hassett went on to state he officially released any confidentiality agreements that might exist between The Times and “any Kevin Hassett” so if his name is attached to the OpEd, the paper could make it public.Hassett’s friends and former colleagues at The National Review backed his assertion. They stated in a short, 132 word piece online that Hassett is not the guy everyone is looking for.Kevin Hassett Didnt Write the Op-Ed https://t.co/MqFFF7SH4Z Rich Lowry (@RichLowry) September 7, 2018“…Kevin has strenuously denied it,” The National Review piece stated, “and as all of us who count him as a friend know, he is a person of honesty and integrity.”“So case closed. Plus, hes not the type of guy who would go in to serve an administration and then undermine it through spectacular subterfuge. Hed simply quit.”The Review piece also pointed out Hassett’s call out to The New York Times to please reveal his name if he is their anonymous OpEd writer.“Finally, lest there be any doubt, Kevin on Yahoo Finance this morning said that if its him, he releases the Times to share his name with the public.”I never suspected Hassett, but he really sets a new bar for denials — saying NYT can release his name if it’s him. That’s sort of a rock solid denial, no? https://t.co/RlOhEKWS99 Philip Klein (@philipaklein) September 7, 2018But how did the name of a relative unknown White House senior official get put in the mix to begin with? The National Review points to their rival, The Weekly Standard, as the culprit.Weekly Standard editor-at-large, Bill Kristol, put Hassett’s name out on Twitter Wednesday afternoon.Kevin Hassett. Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) September 5, 2018“John McCain put it best….We will always have his examplea lodestar for restoring honor to public life & our national dialogue. Mr. Trump may fear such honorable men, but we should revere them.” Hassett, McCain’s top economic adviser in 2000, was a guest at Saturday’s service. Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) September 5, 2018A Weekly Standard article posted Wednesday evening also put Hassett on their short list of four people they suspected of being the anonymous senior White House official. They picked:All four men went on record as not writing the OpEd after The Weekly Standard article published.In keeping with the rivalry between the two publication, aWeekly Standard writer responded directly to The National Review‘s assertion that the question was “ridiculous” until a staffer officially denied they wrote the OpEd.I don’t see why it’s ridiculous to ask if any senior administration official wrote it until he, like the other officials, denies it. Mike Warren (@MichaelRWarren) September 7, 2018The New York Times did not respond to Hassett’s request, however they did point to President Donald Trump’s escalating threats as proof of need for their anonymous author to remain anonymous, as evidenced below.	Liberal
After drinking a complimentary glass of wine on a flight from London, a woman was detained in Dubai for three days with her four-year-old daughter. The woman was held in unsanitary conditions, denied access to water, and forced to clean toilets during her detainment, according to Detained in Dubai, a human rights NGO.Woman arrested with daughter in Dubai over drinking wine is released https://t.co/dctURwUnfj— The Guardian (@guardian) August 11, 2018Ellie Holman, 44, was arrested on July 13 after consuming one complimentary glass of wine on her flight. Immediately upon landing, the woman was allegedly told that her visa had expired and that she would immediately have to return to England. When she balked, the immigration officer asked her about the alcohol consumption.“Yes, I had a glass of wine on the flight,” Holman responded. “Given to me free by Emirates Airline staff,” Holman reports that she has made the same trip to Dubai several times before, without any issue.In response, the immigration official reportedly stated that “possession of alcohol is a crime in the UAE, even if it is inside a persons body.” Holmans BAC was a 0.04.Holman was taken into custody and detained after the blood alcohol test. In addition to her own detainment, Holmans 4-year-old daughter was also detained and denied access to food, water, and a toilet. My little girl had to go to the toilet on the cell floor. I have never heard her cry in the same way as she did in that cell. The food smelled like rotting garbage and neither Bibi or I could face trying it. I stayed awake for the whole three days. By now, Gary knew something was wrong and had flown to Dubai to look for me. Friends had found out I was in jail and tried to visit. Nobody was allowed to see us. We were not even told, said Holman, in a statement through Detained in Dubai.Dubai authorities have refuted Holmans story, however, saying she arrived with an already used visa and that she was arrested only after she swore at officials and filmed them using her phone.While Holman denies swearing, shedid concede that she should have handled the situation differently.“I accept my big mistake was to film the immigration officer. I now realise that was stupid and I should not have done that. But did that really warrant being jailed for three days with my daughter, being spat at and having my hair pulled?”	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Friday called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the Justice Department to launch an investigation into who penned a scathing anonymous op-ed in Wednesday’s New York Times.“Yeah, I would say Jeff should be investigating who the author of this piece was because I really believe it’s national security,” Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One. “Were going to take a look at what he had, what he gave, what hes talking about, also where he is right now,” Trump said of the unnamed author.The Times quickly shut down Trump’s request, calling it a “blatant abuse of government power.”Response from The New York Times to President Trump's comments indicating Attorney General Jeff Sessions should investigate the source of an anonymous Op-Ed essay (story here: https://t.co/TXBYsy5LQj). pic.twitter.com/RTack7SuDw— NYTimes Communications (@NYTimesPR) September 7, 2018The Times said in a statement:Were confident that the Department of Justice understands that the First Amendment protects all American citizens and that it would not participate in such a blatant abuse of government power. The presidents threats both underscore why we must safeguard the identity of the writer of this Op-Ed and serve as a reminder of the importance of a free and independent press to American democracy.The public is standing with the Times, which regularly draws Trump’s ire as an “enemy of the people” and “fake news.”This is amazing! I love the times even more now —  (@CDPJamerican) September 7, 2018 pic.twitter.com/JE3RryO0iX— Barbara&FrankVazquez (@babs18a) September 7, 2018So glad you printed the anonymous letter. Many people out here that are very concerned about the leadership in the White House right now.— Ellen Morgan (@EllenPM) September 7, 2018I stand with the NYT and the 1st Amendment!  Stay strong Journalists!  — DAS (@DASSouthWest) September 7, 20181976: "All the President's Men"2015: "Spotlight"2017: "The Post"2020: "The OpEd" …I'd go and see it on the first day in theaters.Thank you @nytimes for your courage!— Teresa Pftzner (@TPfuetzner) September 7, 2018Preach!!— Dina Burns (@dinacburns) September 7, 2018 pic.twitter.com/X3JYxIeYrE— Blockchain Ed (@ThirdEdNovak) September 7, 2018absolutely.  #Trump needs to cease the pervasive misuse of the office and abuse of the office— ncgazette (@ncgazette) September 7, 2018Thank you New York Times for publishing the op Ed. It is the first time that Im feeling better about our government under this to range dictator Donald J Trump— Episcopo (@Episcopo32204) September 7, 2018Trump did not indicate what law he thinks the official violated in writing the op-ed.	Liberal
In a speech which kicked off his midterm campaigning atthe University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, former President Barack Obama openly rebuked President Donald Trump by name for the first time, saying that Trump poses such a threat to the United States that he felt compelled to speak out.“Im here today because this is one of those pivotal moments when every one of us as citizens of the United States need to determine just who we are, what it is that we stand for,” Obama said. “As a fellow citizen, not as an ex-president, Im here to deliver a simple message, which is that you need to vote, because our democracy depends on it.”Saying the nation is in a “backlash” moment, Obama added:You happen to be coming of age during one of those moments.It did not start with Donald Trump  he is a symptom, not the cause. He is just capitalizing on resentment that politicians have been fanning for years. A fear, an anger that is rooted in our past but is also borne in our enormous upheavals that have taken place in your brief lifetimes.President Obama on divisiveness:  'It did not start with Donald Trump. He is a symptom, not the cause.' This appears to be the first time Obama's publicly addressed Trump by name since leaving office. pic.twitter.com/W2wgNNN1dk— NowThis (@nowthisnews) September 7, 2018Obama was adamant that Trump and his supporters have capitalized on the “politics of fear and resentment” by refusing to play hardball with Russia over its attacks on the democratic process, emboldening white supremacists in the wake of last year’s “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville and politicizing law enforcement agencies.We are Americans. Were supposed to stand up to bulliesnot follow them. And we sure as heck are supposed to stand up to Nazi sympathizers. How hard can that be? Saying that Nazis are bad,” he said.How hard can that be, saying that Nazis are bad?Former President Obama gives speech ahead of 2018 midterms: pic.twitter.com/AN7D38G2AW— TheBeat w/Ari Melber (@TheBeatWithAri) September 7, 2018None of this is conservative, Obama told the audience. I dont mean to pretend Im channeling Abraham Lincoln now but thats not what he had in mind, I think, when he helped form the Republican Party. Its not conservative. It sure isnt normal. Its radical. Its a vision that says the protection of our power and those who back us is all that matters even when it hurts the country.It should not be Democratic or Republican, it should not be a partisan issue to say that we do not pressure the attorney general or the F.B.I. as political cudgel to punish our political opponents, he added. Or to explicitly call on the attorney general to protect members of our own party from prosecution because an election happens to be coming up. Im not making that up. Thats not hypothetical.Obama also had harsh criticisms forthe senior administration official who published an anonymous op-ed in theNew York Timescalling themselves a member of the Resistance within the Trump administration.“That is not a check. Thats not how our democracys supposed to work. These people arent elected, he said. Theyre not doing us a service by actively promoting 90 percent of the crazy stuff thats coming out of this White House, and saying, Dont worry, were preventing the other 10 percent.Most importantly, Obama told his audience: Vote. Hashtags and “ironic detachment” are not enough, he said."Do not complain. Don't hashtag. Don't get anxious. Don't retreat. Don't binge on whatever it is you're binging on. Don't lose yourself in ironic detachment. Don't put your head in the sand. Don't boo. Vote. Vote." President Obama's watching me!pic.twitter.com/t8PazVeb1x— Q. Allan Brocka (@allanbrocka) September 7, 2018To those who’ve expressed their apathy about the voting process, Obama said, “Don’t tell me your vote doesn’t matter… and if you thought elections don’t matter, I hope these last two years have corrected that impression.Former President Obama: Dont tell me your vote doesnt matter and if you thought elections dont matter, I hope these last two years have corrected that impression. https://t.co/dLxQqhdY50 pic.twitter.com/xkMxAQeLan— CNN (@CNN) September 7, 2018Obama’s speech was met with praise for its “take-no-prisoners” approach to the West Wing’s current occupant.For Americans who love this country and care about the future of our 242 years of Democratic self rule, it is imperative to watch President Obamas speech in Illinois today. He spoke of the America we all want. Inclusive, Fair, & Just. And how to achieve that? VOTE!!!— Rob Reiner (@robreiner) September 7, 2018"How hard can that be, saying Nazis are bad?"President Obama, reminding us all that you don't need to be a *stable genius* to state the obvious.Welcome back, Mr. President. pic.twitter.com/OUGSU85Wz1— BrooklynDad_Defiant! (@mmpadellan) September 7, 2018Watching President Obama's speech feels like tearfully looking through an ex's Instagram.— Matt Fernandez (@FattMernandez) September 7, 2018President Obama has officially entered the arena. Game on.— Joy Reid (@JoyAnnReid) September 7, 2018Trump cant stand being humiliated and right now President Obama is making an art of the humiliation of Trump— Roland Scahill (@rolandscahill) September 7, 2018This speech by Barack Obama is one of the greatest, most timely, and most important, in the history of this country. Its a reminder what a real president sounds like. Someone who can unite the country, not divide. Thank you President Obama for speaking out. Youre a patriot.— Scott Dworkin (@funder) September 7, 2018In the past, Obama has refrained from using Trump’s name while criticizing his administration and his policies, keeping with the tradition of past presidents not speaking ill of their successors.In July, Obama made headlines for comments he made in a speech in Johannesburg, South Africa,duringa ceremony commemorating the100th anniversary of Nelson Mandelas birth after Trump chose to side with Russian leader Vladimir Putin over the assessment of his own intelligence agencies that Russia sought to subvert the 2016 presidential election and our collective democratic process.We see the utter loss of shame of political leaders when they’re caught in a lie, and they just double down and lie some more. Politicians have always lied, but it used to be that if you caught them lying, theyd be like, Aw man. Now they just keep on lying,” Obama said at the time.	Liberal
Award winning investigative reporter Bob Woodward recently announced a new book, Fear: Trump in the White House, covering the latest resident of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. Woodward gleaned the material from “interviews with first-hand sources caught on hundreds of hours of tape” as well as “meeting notes, files, documents and personal diaries.”But President Donald Trump appeared unhappy to receive the Woodward treatment. He launched a Twitter campaign blasting Woodward and got signed statements from several of his remaining White House senior staff disavowing any participation in the book.In another effort to discredit Woodward‘s book on Twitter, the President claimed the book got his speaking habits wrong. He posted:“The Woodward book is a scam. I dont talk the way I am quoted. If I did I would not have been elected President. These quotes were made up.”The Woodward book is a scam. I dont talk the way I am quoted. If I did I would not have been elected President. These quotes were made up. The author uses every trick in the book to demean and belittle. I wish the people could see the real facts – and our country is doing GREAT! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 7, 2018But did the book get it wrong? While Trump said yes, The New York Times said no. And then The Times backed it up.One of the quotes Trump disputes involves him referring to embattled Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The book quotes Trump calling Sessions “mentally retarded” and a “dumb Southerner.” Trump took to Twitter to deny the quotes. He stated:“Woodward book…has me calling Jeff Sessions ‘mentally retarded’ and ‘a dumb southerner.’ I said NEITHER, never used those terms on anyone, including Jeff…”The already discredited Woodward book, so many lies and phony sources, has me calling Jeff Sessions mentally retarded and a dumb southerner. I said NEITHER, never used those terms on anyone, including Jeff, and being a southerner is a GREAT thing. He made this up to divide! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 5, 2018Attacking the intelligence of others frequently occurs on Trump’s Twitter feed, but the use of “mentally retarded” does not. However Trump used the phrase “mentally retarded” on recorded radio shows.Trump got caught on tape using the terms “retarded” or “mentally retarded.” In a Howard Stern show appearance on April 16, 2004, Trump used the phrase to refer to a reporter who criticized him. He said:“I know I was criticized in one magazine where the writer was retarded, he said: Donald Trump put up $7 million, they put up $193 million and they are 50/50 partners. Why isnt Donald Trump putting up more money? And you know it is supposed to be because I am smart.”In September 2004, Trump used it again. He said:“I have a golf pro whos mentally retardI mean hes really not a smart guy. And Im playing golf and Im thinking about what Im going to tell NBC and this golf pro comes up to me and tells me, ‘Yeah, but your show is an hour and Friends is a half-hour’.”The Daily Beast reported in 2016 that Trump also used “retarded” to refer to actress Marlee Matlin, who is deaf, when she appeared on his television show Celebrity Apprentice.As for his use of “dumb Southerner,” someone with established ties to the President went on the record stating he said it. Her name isJeane MacIntosh. But what is her connection to Trump?	Liberal
At a Montana MAGA rally Thursday night, a man in a plaid shirt standing behind President Donald Trump was removed because he couldn’t hold back his disbelief over what the president was saying.Trump was boasting about how easy it is to win the popular vote, which he lost handily to Hillary Clinton in 2016.So about the man in the plaid shirt standing behind Trump at his Montana rally last night who was switched out midway through. It appears the reason is that he was mocking Trump. Here he is mouthing what?!? in response to Trumps ranting commentary:pic.twitter.com/XFHM5CTHri— Andrew Wortman (@AmoneyResists) September 7, 2018“It’s hard, it’s harder to win than [the] popular vote,” Trump said of the Electoral College. “Popular vote you go to three, four states boom boom boom.”At this point, plaid shirt guy’s face is like, “wait, what?” right before Trump says: “It’s like the hundred-yard dash versus running the mile, you practice differently.”“What, what?” our friend in plaid can be seen uttering. His expression turned to surprise again when Trump struggled to pronounce the word, “anonymous” – twice – while ranting about a New York Times op-ed.It takes a stable genius to say "Anonymous" pic.twitter.com/0BOki6HKI1— Giles Paley-Phillips (@eliistender10) September 7, 2018That face when he heard Amonimush the second time  was classic.— LisaSea (@LisaSeaFL) September 7, 2018And when Trump said that he and his campaign have “picked up a lot of support,” Plaidman says, “have you?”this was one of my favorites weve picked up a lot of support plaid shirt guy HAVE YOU!?? pic.twitter.com/omM7i8zwPh— Katie Moeser (@IamKatieMoe) September 7, 2018Plaidman was escorted away and replaced by someone more willing to smile through the president’s borderline-incoherent speech, which at this point was peppered with Trump’s greatest hits – immigration, trade, tax cuts – the usual.Jesus it's some hunger games shit up in here. pic.twitter.com/cMzcySyDrt— Susan Simpson (@TheViewFromLL2) September 7, 2018And it wasn’t just our hero – others around him were asked to leave as well.https://twitter.com/HeelSpurs0/status/1037948028441767936YOU MUST CLAP LOUDER FOR DEAR LEADER OR WE WILL REMOVE YOUCan someone find out which gulag they took this guy to?Watch closely: the dude in the plaid shirt behind Trump who isn't clapping enough. #FridayFeeling #FridayMotivation pic.twitter.com/3Y5NkRojPz— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) September 7, 2018Like this girl, who mouthed “wow” when Trump dropped a “fake news” bomb.This is why she was removed. I think she was a paid attendee.Check it out….. pic.twitter.com/nTRDyHOPUS— Princess Pottymouth (@ShawshankRita) September 7, 2018The whole section of “supporters” behind Trump looked bored, to be honest.the crowd behind Trump tonight looks like theyve heard this before pic.twitter.com/r0mR6SFwos— Matt Berman (@Mr_Berman) September 7, 2018Probably because they aren’t billionaire beneficiaries of Trump’s tax cuts.He announces THE BIGGEST TAX CUT IN THE HISTORY OF THIS COUNTRY and not one person clapped…or even smiled. Hmm, could that be b/c none of those people are in the top 1%?????— Julie Kenward (@JulieLKenward) September 7, 2018Naturally, Plaidman was turned into a gif.Hes already become a GIF! This is why twitter is amazing.pic.twitter.com/g3AAZaWhRp— Andrew Wortman (@AmoneyResists) September 7, 2018He had the internet cheering.	Liberal
Democratic Senator Mazie Hirono (HI) is on the Senate Judiciary Committee, and as such has been front and center in the questioning of Brett Kavanaugh during his Supreme Court confirmation hearings.Yesterday, Hirono made waves when she tweeted previously “committee confidential” emails from Kavanaugh revealing his troubling views on the status of native Hawaiians, who, Kavanaugh felt, do not qualify for certain government benefits as they do not qualify as “Indigenous people.”Kavanaugh wrote:“any programs targeting Native Hawaiians as a group…is of questionable authority under the Constitution.”These are the docs Rs don't want you to seebecause they show that Judge Kavanaugh wrongly believes that Native Hawaiian programs are Constitutionally questionable. I defy anyone reading this to be able to conclude that it should be deemed confidential in any way, shape, or form. pic.twitter.com/yj31vDNGia— Senator Mazie Hirono (@maziehirono) September 6, 2018This set the stage for a Hirono’s comprehensive questioning of Kavanaugh both about this email and aboutan opinion piece he wrote calledAre Hawaiians Indians?At the end of her questioning, she concluded that Kavanaugh’s hostility toward the notion that Native Hawaiians do in fact qualify as “indigenous people” would have resonance in another state as well:“Your argument raises a serious question about how you would rule on the constitutionality of programs benefitting Alaskan Natives. I think my colleagues from Alaska should be deeply troubled by your views.”You can watch the full smackdown below:Sen. Hirono called out Brett Kavanaughs blatant ignorance and racism toward Native Hawaiians pic.twitter.com/xaqw0legM0— NowThis (@nowthisnews) September 6, 2018But while she says “my Alaska colleagues” it’s likely that she has an audience of one here, namely Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who is widely seen as a potential Republican No vote on Kavanaugh.Here’s some context:Under the Hawaii Admission Act of 1959, Lands originally belonging to the Hawaiian monarchy then stolen by U.S. forceswere ceded from federal control and back to the state of Hawaii for “the betterment of the conditions of the native Hawaiians.”Forty years later, Kavanaugh implied in his op-ed that because native Hawaiians are dispersed throughout the state rather than on reservations or in sects, they are undeserving of benefits extended to Native Americans.Notably, Native Alaskans were also granted land and benefits with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act. By extension, the views Kavanaugh has expressed on indigenous peoples of Hawaii could reasonably be seen as a threat to indigenous peoples of Alaska as well. Hirono pointed this out, asserting that “her colleagues from Alaska should be deeply troubled.”Hirono’s assertions that Alaskans should be troubled is adding even more pressure on Murkowski to block the confirmation:Kavanaugh believes native Hawaiians are not indigenous. What about the native Alaskans you represent Senator @lisamurkowski? https://t.co/CQ3vCbuFXt— francesca fiorentini (@franifio) September 7, 2018Hirono takes. him. to. task. And what a baton pass to Murkowski on the Alaskan Natives front.  https://t.co/tZRdM1WEVw— Dave Farah (@DaveFarah) September 7, 2018I hope Senator Hirono is talking to AK Senator Lisa Murkowski behind the scenes. I didn't want Gorsuch appointed because I disagree with his ideology, but I feel like Kavanaugh is a true menace.— Cindy McLennan (@cindymclennan) September 7, 2018I think Murkowski needs to know about Kavanaugh's views on the constitutionality of programs benefiting Alaska natives. (He called a Hawaiian Native program a "naked racial spoils system.")Thanks for releasing the documents, Senators Booker and Hirono.— Leda (@MeAndNoArmy) September 7, 2018It wasn’t the only time Democrats of the Senate Judiciary Committee seemed to be systematically evoking concerns of Murkowski and a certain other Republican.	Liberal
Democratic Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum is firing back at President Donald Trump, who took an indirect swipe at Gillum at a MAGA rally in Montana on Thursday.“Heard @realDonaldTrump went after me again tonight  in Montana  but still didn’t have the courage to @ me by name,” Gillum tweeted Thursday night.Mr. President, my name is Andrew Gillum and I’m going to be the next Governor of Florida because lies and scare tactics don’t vote, people do.Heard @realDonaldTrump went after me again tonight  in Montana  but still didn't have the courage to @ me by name. Mr. President, my name is Andrew Gillum and I'm going to be the next Governor of Florida because lies and scare tactics don't vote, people do.— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) September 7, 2018During a stump speech for Montana Republican Senate candidate Matt Rosendale, Trump said it would be a “disaster” for Florida if his chosen candidate, Ron DeSantis, loses the race. Trump did not mention Gillum by name.“Ron for governor,” Trump said, plugging DeSantis into a speech for Rosendale.Trump says Florida will be "a disaster" if Democrat Andrew Gillum wins the governorship. "Ron for governor," he says in Montana.— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) September 7, 2018Florida voters came to Gillum’s defense. He’s drawing a lot of excitement from the progressive left.You are the gold standard on what a true leader is, Mr. Gillum. If I lived in Florida, youd have my vote —  Kayden  (@lightning_waltz) September 7, 2018I do live in Florida and he does have my vote — PoliticalSis  (@MelanieInMiami) September 7, 2018Please remember to vote for @SenBillNelson too, we cannot send Shady Rick Scott to DC. Vote blue up & down the ticket.— WakeUp2Injustice (@WakeUp2News) September 7, 2018Yes you are!!Vote for @AndrewGillum for Governor of #Florida! pic.twitter.com/Iq0eRaidxG— Ali Adair #WaveCast #WaveCastFL (@AliAdair22) September 7, 2018I can and I am.— Resistance! #FBR  (@enja1949) September 7, 2018I donated the max legal amount to you today!!! Go Blue!!!!— Bethany Herwegh (@BethanyHerwegh) September 7, 2018Gillum, the current mayor of Tallahassee, won a surprise upset victory in Florida’s Democratic primary race last month and currently leads DeSantis, a three-term Republican Congressman, in the polls. If he wins, Gillum would become Florida’s first black governor.The day after the primary, Trump tweeted that Gillum is “a failed Socialist Mayor…who has allowed crime & many other problems to flourish in his city. This is not what Florida wants or needs!”Not only did Congressman Ron DeSantis easily win the Republican Primary, but his opponent in November is his biggest dream….a failed Socialist Mayor named Andrew Gillum who has allowed crime & many other problems to flourish in his city. This is not what Florida wants or needs!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018Gillum quickly responded to Trump, urging the president to tag him if he’s looking to pick a fight.“What our state and country needs is decency, hope, and leadership.If you agree, join us at http://AndrewGillum.com. Also, @ me next time, @realDonaldTrump.”What our state and country needs is decency, hope, and leadership. If you agree, join us at https://t.co/fm0ODFFGWU. Also, @ me next time, @realDonaldTrump. https://t.co/59dQy8RLsm— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) August 29, 2018Gillum is not the only gubernatorial candidate Trump attacked in his Thursday speech – without having the courage to use their names.Trump insulted the entire state of California, where Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom (D) is running on a platform of universal health care for all California residents.	Liberal
On Wednesday, September 5, The New York Times published an anonymous opinion piece, or OpEd, that claimed members of the Trump administration acted on behalf of the United States as members of the resistance. The Times only identified the writer as a senior member of the administration for whom revealing their identity would jeopardize their job.Since then, internet sleuths and the White House worked to figure out who it is. Lists of Trump administration staff lined up to declare “not I” before the President and the public.On Thursday evening, WikiLeaks took to Twitter to give their take on the anonymous writer. They stated:“Based upon our statistical analysis of the language used in the New York Times anonymous Op Ed, the author is likely to be an older (58%), conservative (92%) male (66-87%). Sources should protect themselves by consulting ‘adverserial [sic] stylometry’ and ‘forensic author profiling’.”Based upon our statistical analysis of the language used in the New York Times anonymous Op Ed, the author is likely to be an older (58%), conservative (92%) male (66-87%). Sources should protect themselves by consulting “adverserial stylometry” and “forensic author profiling”. pic.twitter.com/yfU22OveTq WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) September 7, 2018They also included a tiny, nearly illegible, colorful graphic.However, the Twittersphere quickly pointed out that the demographic WikiLeaks pointed to is the same demographic of the majority of the President’s staff.Based on my statistical analysis of the language used in this tweet, @wikileaks is likely to be self-aggrandising (58%), compromised (92%), desperate for relevance (66-87%). [calland] (@callapygian) September 7, 2018Without statistical analysis of language, a review of White House and Trump administration senior staff photos would also give an identical analysis.An older conservative male. Got it. That sure narrows it down. https://t.co/s140iVvo0k Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) September 7, 2018Perhaps their message would fare better if prefaced with “Not to state the obvious, but….”Great profiling! I expected it to be a young, black female with a girlfriend and membership in the Communist Party of America. I’m shocked, Sherlock. Robert Lee (@downtownrob88) September 7, 2018pic.twitter.com/xdAqsk6quv Heather (@angelwolfhh) September 7, 2018That’s some serious sleuthing. Your computer model ruled out Nicky Haley and Omorosa. Marc Albert (@MarcMealbert) September 7, 2018pic.twitter.com/br0k8CuiEC J. M. Mason ?? (@whiskers1960) September 7, 2018Based on the makeup of the White House, no shit sherlock Jeremy Sher (@Overlapping) September 7, 2018Based upon our statistical analysis of the language used in this tweet, the author is likely to be a Captain (87%), Obvious (92%).https://t.co/Rr47klSFVO Morten verbye (@morten) September 7, 2018Seriously? It took fancy analytics to determine it was an older conservative male? You just described the administration … David Golden (@vtdave88) September 7, 2018pic.twitter.com/XYoeHRFQxp Palmer Wood (@palmerwood52) September 7, 2018You just described the entire GOP bro Julia Lundman (@PaintKatt) September 7, 2018Huh. And here I thought it’d be a young, liberal woman. Well done! pic.twitter.com/haqu7iT9V8 B. J. Leech _ (@ModerateJerk) September 7, 2018My cat could have come to this conclusion. KaBA (@buchleraustin) September 7, 2018Who wouldda thunk?? pic.twitter.com/0b8DWkf0Gi Fubbles McBubbles (@FubblesMcBubble) September 7, 2018If only we could find an old white guy in the Trump admin. This really is a cutting edge insight. Bacons Grillin (@BaconGrillin123) September 7, 2018But what about that colorful graphic?Your diagram is completely illegible, you spelled adversarial wrong, your statistical analysis I could’ve gotten from Miss Cleo & you’ve apparently lost your fucking minds and turned into Scientology Kevin Heldman (@kevinjayheldman) September 7, 2018No one can read that picture James (@letzgoterps) September 7, 2018The Twitter profile “Alt-Immigration” tracked it down and provided a better image. They expressed their displeasure with the use of the seemingly random graphic rather eloquently.Based upon our statistical analysis of the language used in wiki leaks tweets, the author is likely to be a:S873873 C983938 U872010 M973983 B720820 A973083 G973020 ALT- Immigration ?? (@ALT_uscis) September 7, 2018I was right….. here is the bulll S**t analysis you showed that no one could read.. it is an analysis of English novels…. Scumbuckets pic.twitter.com/L7HBfwENl0 ALT- Immigration ?? (@ALT_uscis) September 7, 2018I called you scum buckets yesterday for a reason. Your Adversarial Stylometry picture there to find the Op-ED author is nothing but a bullshit analysis of English novels…. Tom hardy novels? really..And people take your seriously? see for yourself pic.twitter.com/DI97snc1xW ALT- Immigration ?? (@ALT_uscis) September 7, 2018It is colorful though.Meanwhile, others provided their own guesses for the identity of the mystery writer.	Liberal
Speaking at a rally in Billings, Montana, last night, President Donald Trump claimedthat the media “excoriated” former President Abraham Lincoln when he gave the Gettysburg Address in 1863.“You know when Abraham Lincoln made that Gettysburg Address speech, the great speech, you know he was ridiculed?” Trump said of the famous speech Lincoln gave on a battlefield near Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, during the Civil War.“And he was excoriated by the fake news. They had fake news then. They said it was a terrible, terrible speech.”Trump claimed that the Gettysburg Address only came to be revered as one of Lincoln’s finest hours 50 years after he gave it.“Fiftyyears after his death they said it may have been the greatest speech ever made in America,” Trump said. “I have a feeling that’s going to happen with us. In different ways, that’s going to happen with us.”Trump Suggests His Speeches Will One Day Be Seen On Par with the Gettysburg Address, which the Fake News Also Bashed pic.twitter.com/Cg4ywg9Ykp— Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) September 7, 2018Trump’s claim that the speech was not highly regarded is also misleading. It was George Conway, the husband of presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway and one of Trump’s harshest critics, who pointed out that theNew York Times‘s coverage at the time of the speech was actually “quite favorable.”The coverage of President Lincolns address in the New York Times was quite favorable, actually:https://t.co/ipsgvOusbghttps://t.co/5umCU6yq1I https://t.co/8DmK3LphWN— George Conway (@gtconway3d) September 7, 2018In an article dated November 21, 1863, a Times special correspondent wrote that:President LINCOLN’s brief address was delivered in a clear, loud tone of voice, which could be distinctly heard at the extreme limits of the large assemblage. It was delivered (or rather read from a sheet of paper which the speaker held in his hand) in a very deliberate manner, with strong emphasis, and with a most business-like air.TheHarrisburg Patriot & Union did criticize Lincoln’s speech, to which it devoted just one brief paragraph:We pass over the silly remarks of the President. For the credit of the nation we are willing that the veil of oblivion shall be dropped over them, and that they shall be no more repeated or thought of.The newspaper issued a retraction 150 years later:Seven score and ten years ago, the forefathers of this media institution brought forth to its audience a judgment so flawed, so tainted by hubris, so lacking in the perspective history would bring, that it cannot remain unaddressed in our archives. …In the fullness of time, we have come to a different conclusion. No mere utterance, then or now, could do justice to the soaring heights of language Mr. Lincoln reached that day. By today’s words alone, we cannot exalt, we cannot hallow, we cannot venerate this sacred text, for a grateful nation long ago came to view those words with reverence, without guidance from this chagrined member of the mainstream media.That Trump, a president who is under federal investigation and has continuously attacked many of the ideals of duty, patriotism, and equality that Lincoln espoused, would compare himself to perhaps the most highly regarded leader the United States has ever had irked people immediately.Walter Shaub, the former head of the Office of Government Ethics, offered this sarcastic question:Have you ever watched the original CNN footage of the Gettysburg address?— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) September 7, 2018Others were a bit more pointed in their criticisms.Let me explain why Trumps speeches cannot be compared to the Gettysburg Address. So MANY reasons (style, form, elegance, etc).The MOST important is that the Gettysburg Address is steeped in communal values. Trump never speaks of them, doesnt know them, cant articulate them https://t.co/gi0k5sfMOc— Dr. Jennifer Mercieca (@jenmercieca) September 7, 2018The man who forgot words to the National Anthem thinks people can recite from memory the Gettysburg Address. Watching Trump attempt to do that would probably easily pass for an episode of Drunk History. https://t.co/1Px872ajZV— Miranda Yaver (@mirandayaver) September 7, 2018Trump claims to know the entirety of the Gettysburg Address by heart. He cant even sing the Anthem. https://t.co/aRyeSCgeMQ— Jen Skelly (@Jenlskelly) September 7, 2018I would pay one thousand dollars to watch Trump try to recite the Gettysburg Address. https://t.co/JYpqTdzvVs— SuperJonny64 (@SuperJonny64) September 7, 2018The only place the utterances of Donald Trump are comprable to the Gettysburg Address are in his narcissistic mind.— Matt Taylor (@Matt4Wisconsin) September 7, 2018Trump’s comments were a part of a speech he gave in support forMatt Rosendale, the GOP Senate candidate who is challenging Democratic Senator Jon Tester.	Liberal
On August 21, after much speculation concerning her stance on President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, Maine Republican Senator Susan Collins posted her official statement on Facebook.Prior to this statement, Collins stated her endorsement of Kavanaugh hinged on his view of “settled law” in regards to women’s reproductive rights and the SCOTUS case of Roe v. Wade. Collins long claimed to support women’s reproductive rights.After meeting with Kavanaugh for two hours, Collins announced to her constituents she knew where Kavanaugh stood, but would follow the confirmation hearings before making a final decision. In statements to the press, her office reassured Collins performed due diligence.Here is Collins August 21 Facebook post and the largely unfavorable reactions to it…  …and the Maine Senator’s official statement.But now new information, from the many records suppressed by the Trump White House and Senate Republicans, concerning Kavanaugh’s views on Roe v. Wade is available. And it appears Kavanaugh’s view of Roe v. Wade as settled law is not as firm as Collins told her constituents.He lied to Susan Collins. He doesn’t believe Roe is settled law. pic.twitter.com/PAVV0qENvD Winifred (@WaywardWinifred) September 6, 2018As a staunch pro-choice advocate, any wavering in Kavanaugh’s commitment to settled law would change Collin’s stance on Trump’s nominee.Now we’ll see if she cares Third Summers Brother?? (@hugetinymistake) September 6, 2018Unless, it did not.Collins dismisses Kavanaugh 2003 Roe email, noting he was merely stating a fact, which is that three judges on the court would vote overturn it. If that is the case, and he was not expressing his view, then Im not sure what the point of it is. Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) September 6, 2018Despite claims of thorough vetting and touting her commitment to women’s rights, reproductive and otherwise, Collins announced:“I am told he was editing an op-ed or something for clarity and was merely stating a fact, which is that three judges on the court were anti-Roe. If thats the case and he was not expressing his view, then Im not sure what the point of it is.”Ha. I love this whole response of “guess we don’t know what his views on Roe are.” What is the point of a response like that? You know what his views are, so why are you all (both Igor and Andrew) pretending like he could actually be in favor of Roe? Jake (@jakestewy) September 6, 2018But for supporters of women’s rights and many of Collins constituents, there are a few too many “ifs” and “or somethings” in Collins justification of not committing to a Kavanaugh “no” vote.	Liberal
Voters in Maine are raising money for a potential challenger to Senator Susan Collins (R) in 2020 if she votes to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court.The “Be A Hero” effort, which is operating through CrowdPAC, has raked in more than half a million provisional dollars since its launch last month.Maine voters — @SenatorCollins constituents — are standing up today to let her know: if she votes for Kavanaugh, they will defeat her. Watch the new video, and pledge $20.20 at https://t.co/VshoGeTtcG to defeat Susan Collins *if* she votes for Kavanaugh #StopKavanaugh pic.twitter.com/jjrKMouiAL— Be A Hero (@BeAHeroTeam) September 4, 2018Its goal is to replace Collins with a Democrat, should the incumbent Republican choose to vote for Kavanaugh, who is seen by many to be a threat to Roe vs. Wade.Collins is widely viewed as independent-minded and is one of only two pro-choice Republicans in the Senate; the other being Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski.“There are two scenarios” that the website lays out:Senator Collins votes NO on Kavanaugh and you will not be charged, and no money will go to fund her future opponent.Senator Collins votes YES on Kavanaugh and your pledge will go to her opponent’s campaign, once that opponent has been identified.“Kavanaugh is committed to ending healthcare for people with pre-existing conditions. He is committed to overturning Roe v. Wade,” Be A Hero says. “Kavanaugh cannot be nominated – he would mean bankruptcy and danger for millions of families in Maine and America.”The campaign urges Collins to stand up for women and not give in to President Donald Trump’s agenda, which Be A Hero views as dangerous.Your swing vote could decide whether a rubber stamp for Trumps anti-healthcare, anti-woman, anti-labor agenda gets confirmed to the Supreme Courtcosting millions of Americans their healthcare, their right to choose,and their lives.The site contains a warning for Collins:If you fail to stand up for the people of Maine and for Americans across the country, every dollar donated to this campaign will go to your eventual Democratic opponent in 2020. We will get you out of office.On Thursday, Parkland survivor David Hogg shared the page on Twitter along with an announcement that he had donated.I love this idea! Im pledging $20.20 to campaign against @SenatorCollins if she confirms Kavanaugh. If we get this to $1 million we might be able to actually #BlockKavanaugh You can do the same by clicking below. https://t.co/Wa7oNv7zeb https://t.co/RJMwvnULHC— David Hogg (@davidhogg111) September 6, 2018Celebrities also took to Twitter to urge Collins not to vote for Kavanaugh.On Thursday, Alyssa Milano quoted Kavanaugh from leaked documents in which the judge questioned whether Roe vs. Wade was settled law. Kavanaugh did not, however, personally opine either way.I am not sure that all legal scholars refer to Roe as the settled law of the land at the Supreme Court level since Court can always overrule its precedent, and three current Justices on the Court would do so. – Kavanaugh CALL SENATORS: 202) 224-3121 https://t.co/bq1K8v4ePh— Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) September 6, 2018Still, Chelsea Handler made sure Collins got the message.Hey @SenatorCollins. You cant use the excuse anymore that he considers it settled law. So, what now? https://t.co/nwbKZmPXhV— Chelsea Handler (@chelseahandler) September 6, 2018Followers certainly got the message, and are very supportive of Be A Hero.	Liberal
The tempestuous confirmation hearing of President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh has been peppered with protests and points of order. Among the chief criticisms from Democrats of the Senate Judiciary Committee is the concealment of thousands of Kavanaugh’s documents from his time as Staff Secretary during the George W. Bush administration.Members of the Senate Judiciary Committee were permitted to view the documents, but they were forbidden from disclosing their contents outside of the committee. Democratic senators repeatedly called for the release of these “committee confidential” documents until lawyers for Bush and the Department of Justice relented on certain documentsWednesday night.Now, the Democrats are racing to get the information to the public, with many taking to Twitter to do so.Some, like Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) are calling out apparent contradictions between Kavanaugh’s emails and the statements he made under oath.BREAKING: Brett Kavanaugh was asked in 2004 about whether he was involved in the nomination of Bill Pryor. He said I was not involved in handling his nomination"Newly released emails show that's not true. Asked about how Pryor's interview went, he replied "CALL ME." pic.twitter.com/63Wb5uY95G— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) September 6, 2018Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) called out Kavanaugh for this contradiction as well.Today I asked Judge #Kavanaugh about that testimony. He again tried to distanced himself from Pryor. Hmmmight it be because Pryor called #ROE the worst abomination in the history of constitutional law? Here are the docs. You be the judge. pic.twitter.com/n2rPbdJkL7— Sen. Patrick Leahy (@SenatorLeahy) September 6, 2018The two senators are referring to 11th Circuit Court of Appeals Judge William Pryor who was appointed by George W. Bush in 2004. Pryor once called the 1973Roe v. Wadedecision “the worst abomination in the history of constitutional law.”Kavanaugh’s own stance on the decision is coming under immense scrutiny. This is only exacerbated by evidence that he may have lied under oath at his own court of appeals hearing in 2004. There, Kavanaugh insisted that he did not facilitate or otherwise have involvement with Pryor’s appointment. As the documents tweeted by Feinstein and Leahyshow, this appears to not be entirely true.Feinstein doubled down on her criticisms by tweeting another email published by theNew York Timesin which Kavanaugh claims some judges may not considerRoe v. Wadeas settled law and that they could overturn precedent any time. The statements in his email are in diametric opposition to the sentiments he expressed in his hearing.Brett Kavanaugh can evade our questions on Roe all he likes, but he cant dodge his own words in this email. Make no mistake, Roe v. Wade can be settled law today and overturned tomorrow. #WhatsAtStake pic.twitter.com/pVgrCwC641— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) September 6, 2018The contradictions have incited a stir across social media.After todays leaked documents show Kavanaughs true feelings on Roe Vs. Wade, I urge you all to contact the two Republican women Senators and urge them to vote NO on Kavanaugh:Susan Collins: (207) 622-8414Lisa Murkowski: (202)-224-6665Call & RETWEET Please!!— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) September 6, 2018IS KAVANAUGH SERIOUSLY FUCKING USING HIS ENTIRE GIRLS BASKETBALL TEAM AS PROPS TO HELP HIM GET THE VOTES HE NEEDS TO OVERRULE ROE V. WADE JESUS FUCKING CHRIST I HATE THIS TIMELINE!— Ian Millhiser (@imillhiser) September 6, 2018If Brett Kavanaugh becomes a Supreme Court justice, will he help gut or overturn Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion in America? Yes, of course he will.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 5, 2018The Pryor case isn’t the only instance in which Kavanaugh is accused of lying under oath. Senator Leahy again accused Kavanaugh of lying under oath in 2003 on whether or not he had prior knowledge of or access to documents stolen during the “Memogate” scandal that year, in which Republican staffers stole confidential memos from the Senate Judiciary Committee. The scandal occurred during Kavanaugh’s time in the George W. Bush White House. These files of aides to Judiciary Committee senators (including Leahy himself) were first leaked to Kavanaugh’s colleague Manuel Miranda.BREAKING: Kavanaugh testified he never received any docs that even appeared to  have been drafted or prepared by Democratic staff.  Well, he got 8 pages of material taken VERBATIM from my files, obviously written by Dem staff, LABELED not [for] distribution. pic.twitter.com/eFlIBZ0Z1W— Sen. Patrick Leahy (@SenatorLeahy) September 6, 2018Heres more of that email stolen from Dem staff that was clearly marked not [for] distribution. pic.twitter.com/acqBj3ekJp— Sen. Patrick Leahy (@SenatorLeahy) September 6, 2018Kavanaugh sent an email to a WH colleague with information he got from Mr. Miranda. It was vote information on 15 Democratic senators, on a contentious issue, according to Democrat sources. STILL no reason to suspect anything untoward? pic.twitter.com/ezIcYmyGJZ— Sen. Patrick Leahy (@SenatorLeahy) September 6, 2018Kavanaugh’s reaction to Leahy’s thorough questioning about the scandal seemed suspect to some.Senator Leahy, in devastating fashion, outlines how Kavanaugh has misled the committee about receiving stolen documents and collaborating with the guy who stole them, Manny Miranda pic.twitter.com/Je3EHaq8go— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) September 6, 2018LEAHY: Here you are getting obviously very private Democratic emails. You weren't concerned how Mr. Miranda got them? KAVANAUGH: I guess I'm not sure about your premise. L: Were you concerned where the emails came from?K: I don't recall. pic.twitter.com/TsMAaH80me— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) September 5, 2018Very damning.  Miranda sends Kavanaugh very detailed info that Miranda clearly says came from "confidential" Senate Dem documents, being distributed only among Dem counsels, and tells Kavanaugh to handle that info with great secrecy. https://t.co/tvYAbnTPFO— David Burbach (@dburbach) September 6, 2018Leahy and Feinstein are just the beginning of Kavanaugh’s problems, with Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Mazie Hirono (D-HI) using committee confidential documents to their advantage as well.	Liberal
At the DEFCON hacking conference in Las Vegas, kids aged 8-16 had the chance to hack into simulated US election systems  and they found it alarmingly quick and easy.Emmett Brewer, an 11-year-old Texan, was able to access a duplicate of Floridas state election website in under 10 minutes. Once inside, he changed the vote tallies in the site to award himself 239 billion votes in less than five minutes. An 11-year-old girl was able to perform the same hack in about 15 minutes.A 17-year-old from Washington went farther, using easily Googled shutdown commands to completely crash a midterm election simulation. All vote counts were lost, and the website presented an execution error. It took him 10 minutes. And Im not even a very good hacker, he said.These election vulnerabilities were on show at DEFCON 26, an annual hacking conference in Las Vegas. This year, organizers launched the Voting Machine Village, and invited youth attendees to manipulate candidate names and vote totals in hardware and software used in several battleground states. About 50 kids participated in the Village, and they found plenty of vulnerabilities.In the Diebold TSX machine, widely deployed in hundreds of counties and cities nationwide (including the swing states of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wisconsin and Virginia), hackers found SSL certificates that expired in 2013 which means each machine is subject to all vulnerabilities in that software cataloged in the past five years. One hacker was able to upload a Linux OS to a Diebold TSX and then programmed the machine to play gifs and music.The Diebold Express Poll 5000 was found to be even more vulnerable (again). That machines memory cards are easily accessible at the top of the machine, and another market-purchased card with alternative information and vote tallies can be inserted in its place. Switching the two cards can be done in less than five seconds. Once removed, the original cards can be accessed by a hacker to collect unencrypted supervisor passwords and voters personal data. Voter information gathered included home addresses, drivers license numbers, and the last four digits of Social Security Numbers. In the most embarrassing cases, the unencrypted password was Password. All told, Voting Machine Village co-organizer Nico Sell said that more than 30 children were able to hack into other states website duplicates in half an hour or less. These are very accurate replicas of all of the sites, Sell told the PBS NewsHour. These things should not be easy enough for an 8-year-old kid to hack within 30 minutes, its negligent for us as a society.	Liberal
In efforts to bolster support and fend off impeachment talk, President Donald Trump recently made some outrageous claims. From threats of violent Democrats to economic collapse if he were to be impeached, the assertions failed to gain much traction.The President continuously chases but cannot seem to crack a 50 percent approval rating in all but one conservative polland then only once in even that poll after his first 60 days in office. So his fear tactics to sway voters going into the 2018 midterm elections in November make a certain degree of sense.But do the claims themselves contain any truth?The absurdity of the violent Democrats as a result of Democratic wins in the midterms statement received a rather effective refutation from Bette Midler already. But what about the threat of economic collapse if Trump faced impeachment?Barclays Plc decided to take a look.Barclays is a renowned British multinational investment bank and financial services company headquartered in London controlling about 1.133 trillion ($1.439 trillion) in assets.Their verdict?William Hobbs, head of investment strategy at Barclays Investment Solutions in London, stated:“We doubt that capital markets would collapse if President Trumps administration was endangered, either electorally or indeed legally.”“The forward momentum of the world economy, and therefore its capital markets, has little to do with the actions of the White House, past, present or future, in our opinion.”And past history backs them up.Looking at the effects of investigations into former presidents Bill Clinton and Richard Nixon show the state of the economy defined market direction, not a President’s legal issues. For Nixon, equity and bond markets responded to the oil crisis and recession before Nixon’s impeachment and resignation. During the Clinton impeachment, stocks continued to respond to the dot-com bubble.Hobbs added:“The lesson from all this is that the wider economic context matters most for capital markets.”Barclays pointed out little credit belongs to Trump for the Trump rally in the US economy. The present state of the economy owes its success to the period before the 2016 presidential election, when President Barack Obama occupied the White House.Barclays assessment, while helpful in refuting the President’s false claim, came as no great surprise.Trump made his impeachment prediction in an interview with Fox News on August 23. The President stated:“I dont know how you can impeach somebody whos done a great job.”He added:“Ill tell you what, if I ever got impeached, I think the market would crash. I think everybody would be very poor. Because without this thinking you would see numbers that you wouldnt believe, in reverse.”Almost from the moment Trump first claimed his impeachment would cause the stock market to collapse, people expressed their skepticism or their willingness to test his theory.	Liberal
It may surprise you to learn that Pornhub, the largest pornography site on the Internet, has long been a progressive company, with an eye on socially relevant issues that far surpass mere access to provocative adult entertainment. Recently, Pornhub took their activism a step further and made an effort to improve accessibility for those with hearing loss. Specifically, the site has added closed captioning for a specific section of its content library, geared toward its members who are hearing impaired.According to Pornhub, over 1,000 clips will be updated to include comprehensive captioning that is descriptive and interpretive for individuals who are not able to hear the videos original audio.These updates far expand beyond simple closed captioning.. The updates will allow viewers to distinguish between different speakers, as well as identify changes in emotion. Non-spoken sounds will also be identified and augmented, especially when relevant to the storyline of any given clip. The videos will be hand captioned, rather than captioned by any sort of algorithm system, which will serve to increase the realism of the updates.Currently, approximately 40 million Americans are living with some kind of hearing loss.This recent move comes after Pornhub previously updated many of its videos to promoted inclusively for individuals with vision impairment. According to Engadget, many of these videos geared towards visual impairment have over one million views each.Updating its videos to promote inclusivity isnt the first time that Pornhub has worked to promote social awareness. On July 12, Pornhub announced an intention to join a protest movement designed to fight against the net neutrality repeal. The protest, called Day of Action, occurred five days before the first deadline for comments on the FCCs proposed net neutrality update. The company joined 60 other companies in a protest organized by Fight for the Future, freepress and Demand Progress, all in an effort to save net neutrality.“Hell hath no fury like the internet scorned,” Evan Greer, campaign director of advocacy group Fight for the Future, told Motherboard in April.As part of the protest, Pornhub intentionally slowed down its speeds to demonstrate the impact that the repeal of net neutrality would have on the sites functionality and usability. Pornhub is currently among the top 20 most visited sites in the US. According to Pornhub itself, the site receives over 75 million visitors per day.	Liberal
As the mystery continues to grow over who wrote the now infamousNew York Times op-ed about President Donald Trump’s chaotic White House, First Lady Melania Trump offered her own thoughts on the editorial Thursday afternoon.CNN‘s Kate Bennett asked Mrs. Trump for her reaction to the anonymously-penned op-ed, which White House aides have blamed for putting the president in a “volcanic” mood.I asked @FLOTUS about the oped, here is her answer to @CNN: pic.twitter.com/MGYPijt7Vw— Kate Bennett (@KateBennett_DC) September 6, 2018“Freedom of speech is an important pillar of our nation’s founding principles and a free press is important to our democracy,”Mrs. Trump told CNN in a statement Thursday. “The press should be fair, unbiased and responsible.”The First Lady blasted the Times for publishing an editorial piece of such magnitude without citing the author.“Unidentified sources have become the majority of the voices people hear about in today’s news. People with no names are writing our nation’s history,” the First Lady said. “Words are important, and accusations can lead to severe consequences.”The president has long derided anonymous and confidential sources as “fake news,” despite his own history of disguising his own identity when speaking to the press. Mrs. Trump, in her response, appeared to parrot her husband’s frustrations.“If a person is bold enough to accuse people of negative actions,” Mrs. Trump added, “they have a responsibility to publicly stand by their words and people have the right to be able to defend themselves.”The First Lady’s statement concluded with a message to the editorial’s author, whoever he or she may be.To the writer of the op-ed — you are not protecting this country, you are sabotaging it with your cowardly actions.Mrs. Trump didn’t deny what the op-ed was saying, however.Twitter dragged the First Lady for invoking anonymous sources when peddling her husband’s birther conspiracy about President Barack Obama’s birth certificate.Melania the birther perpetuator, sure.  As soon as she settles up her source of confidence around Barack Obama's birth certificate, she can be outraged by this oped.  She isn't calling the oped false though… strangely.  Also, her husband's cheated on her how many times?— Cucurbita pepo (@zuckeenan) September 6, 2018@FLOTUS Your statement concerning the oped was read by Angela Mitchell. Let me ask you: who was your source when you were a birther? Who was your husband's source when he spread the birther lie? Wouldnt that make you and your lying pig husband both "cowards"?— gloria blount (@BlountGblount61) September 6, 2018Did you ask her about this person using anonymous sources to sabotage our last @potus and harm our country? pic.twitter.com/tisSapkabA— RRTCL (@TheRealRealTCL) September 6, 2018Anonymous should stand up and be seen. Also, Melania is a birther and without her public apology to Barack Obama her words mean nothing to me.— MulattoCrinkle (@CamaraDorelle) September 6, 2018Why isn’t the First Lady holding the president to this standard, considering his own pattern of using pseudonyms, such as John Barron or David Dennison?Here you go.  https://t.co/Ji7No8sNrG— Patti Coppersmith (@coppertime) September 6, 2018Dear Melania Trump,Donald Trump was his own anonymous source for all of his adult life, including telling journalists about his sexcapades (ew!), and he even posed as a PR man named John Barron.Dismount your high horse and hold your husband to the standard you speak of.— Dawn Young-McDaniel  (@justdawn_) September 6, 2018Burn.Doubts over who really wrote Mrs. Trump’s statement flooded Twitter.	Liberal
Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) didn’t hold back on Wednesday when it was her turn to question President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Brett Kavanaugh.The Senator, who has served as California’s Attorney General and as a public prosecutor, showed that cross-examinations were her specialty.Harris began by focusing on the Russia investigation under Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, asking Kavanaugh if he’d ever discussed the case with anyone. When Kavanaugh replied that he’d spoken of it with other judges, Harris asked if he’d spoken with anyone atKasowitz, Benson & Torres, the law firm founded by Trump’s personal lawyer Marc Kasowitz.Has Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh had a conversation about Robert Mueller or his investigation with anyone at Trump's personal attorney's law firm?We dont know. He refused to answer my question. pic.twitter.com/PAKxDGvEtZ— Kamala Harris (@SenKamalaHarris) September 6, 2018Kavanaugh stammered as Harris warned him: “Be very careful with your answer, sir.”Kavanaugh asked if the senator was thinking of a specific person, and if she could refresh his memory, to which the senator replied:With all that you remember, you have an impeccable memory, youve been speaking for almost eight hours, maybe more with this committee, about all sorts of things youve been asked, How can you not remember whether or not you had a conversation about Robert Mueller or his investigation with anyone at that law firm?Harris’s unwavering line of questioning garnered praise across social media.The Kavanaugh hearing:GOP senators: Omg hiya Brett, tell us about what you ate for breakfast!!!Kamala Harris: Explain the conversations you've had about Mueller. Tell me about federal laws that govern male bodies. Give your thoughts on white supremacists.— Lily Herman (@lkherman) September 6, 2018My senator does not suffer fools.This exchange is extraordinary. Kamala Harris simply wont let Kavanaugh weasel out of the question of whether hes spoken about the Mueller investigation with anyone at the law firm of Trumps personal attorney.Clearly he has. https://t.co/obRzs44V8M— Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) September 6, 2018The last 30 minutes of my life have basically consisted of sipping drinks and watching Sen. Kamala Harris adroitly dismantle Brett Kavanaugh with no regard for chummy boy's club niceties, and I am absolutely here for it.— Charlotte Clymer (@cmclymer) September 6, 2018Her assurance during the exchange led some to believe she knows something the public doesn’t.Re: Kamala and her Qs re whether Kavanaugh discussed Mueller probe with anyone at Kasowitz — Dem aide tells me they have reason to believe that a conversation happened and are continuing to pursue it.— Seung Min Kim (@seungminkim) September 6, 2018Ben Wittes should know better.  Kamala Harris knows something.  Shes using Muellers method…get the facts, then catch them in a lie.  His avoidance of answering says it all.  His prior lies speaks volumes.He shouldnt even be a circuit judge.— snowangel (@Snowangel11) September 6, 2018Talk about stonewalling! Kavanaugh does not want to answer that question. it is obvious that Kamala knows something and he does not want it to come out.— Juanita Moore  (@JuanitaIguana1) September 6, 2018Absolutely. I'm a 35 year litigation paralegal and my husband is a 35 year litigator. We both looked at her Q&A and came to the same conclusion: he *absolutely* talked with Kasowitz or someone in his firm. You don't dodge and spin like this unless you have something to hide.— TerryinCA (@TerryPullBurd) September 6, 2018Kavanaugh asked if the senator was thinking of a specific person, to which she replied:I think youre thinking of someone and you dont want to tell us.It was far from the only tense moment of Harris’s questioning.	Liberal
During the Senate Judiciary CommitteeHearing this morning, Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) announced his intention to knowingly violate Senate rules by releasing an email from when Brett Kavanaugh served under President George W. Bush, which shows Kavanaugh supported racial profiling by police.“No Senate rule and no history of the Senate accounts for what is going on right now,” Booker said, saying that he is prepared to engage in “civil disobedience” with the understanding that the penalty could be a “potential ousting from the Senate.”Sen. Cory Booker at Kavanaugh hearing says he is releasing email "about racial profiling" to "expose" that documents "being withheld from the public have nothing to do with national security.""I understand that the penalty comes with potential ousting from the Senate." pic.twitter.com/dIL8TsNsEP— ABC News (@ABC) September 6, 2018“If Senator [John] Cornyn believes that I violated Senate rules, I openly invite and accept the consequences of my team releasing that email right now,” he added, saying he is willing to do so to “expose” thatdocuments “being withheld from the public have nothing to do with national security, nothing to jeopardize the sanctity of those ideals that I hold dear.”“Instead, what I am releasing this document right now to show, sir, is that we have a process here for a person, the highest office in the land, for a lifetime appointment, we’re rushing through this before me and my colleagues can read and digest the information,” he continued.Senator Cornyn harshly rebuked Booker’s action, calling it “unbecoming” for Booker to “willingly flout the rules of the Senate.”“Running for president is no excuse for violating the rules of the Senate or of confidentiality of the documents that we are privy to,” Cornyn said of Booker.Sen. Booker: "I'm knowingly violating the rules…I am releasing committee confidential documents"Sen. Cornyn: "Running for president is no excuse for violating the rules…This is no different from the senator deciding to release classified information" https://t.co/XUooXXALVI pic.twitter.com/1jEZ62nTdY— ABC News (@ABC) September 6, 2018Later in the morning, he tweeted a link to the documents:These are the 4 documents marked committee confidential that I brought up in my questioning of  Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh last night –> https://t.co/2RZkY2FS9a— Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) September 6, 2018He summed up the reason he was willing to make such a bold move with this tweet earlier in the morning:What you do matters. What you say matters. No matter how big the fightOr inevitable the conclusion seemsStand up.Speak up.Wrong, temporarily victoriousIs never greater than Right, forever vigilant.— Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) September 6, 2018Booker’s decision received praise from fellow Democrats, including Illinois Senator Dick Durbin, who said:I just want to say to my colleagues, particularly my colleague from New Jersey, I completely agree with you. I concur with what you are doing. And let’s just into this together. I hope my other colleagues will join me. So if there is going to be some retribution against the senator from New Jersey, count me in.Booker was also praised by average citizens who’ve been following the hearings and oppose a potential Kavanaugh confirmation. Booker is a favorite to run in the 2020 presidential election.https://twitter.com/GetOffMyLawn23/status/1037704353770098688He's taunting them: go ahead, oust me, and see how well that goes over, you-ousting-me-for-revealing-secrets.— Michael Bruce Hill (@MBH222) September 6, 2018Now that's sacrificing for the greater good if he does this.— Tuscana (@ddchills) September 6, 2018Trumps week just got worse. And Kavanaugh has to be sweating what other emails they have. Its going to be a long long day.— Fed up (@Elegant01300503) September 6, 2018The documents Booker released can be found here and are embedded below. 	Liberal
Thursday, the administration of President Donald Trump continued to try to get out from under the issues they created with implementation of the zero tolerance policy by changing the rules as opposed to adhering to the guidance already in place.The Departments of Homeland Security (DHS) and Health and Human Services (DHHS) announced the Trump administration, rather than limit the length of child detention as prescribed by the Flores Settlement in 1997, would enact new regulations allowing them to detain children longer.The decision is bound to result in further lawsuits the administration will probably lose, but in the meantime they can shelve family reunification and child detentiondeadlines.DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen stated:“Today, legal loopholes significantly hinder the Departments ability to appropriately detain and promptly remove family units that have no legal basis to remain in the country.”“This rule addresses one of the primary pull factors for illegal immigration and allows the federal government to enforce immigration laws as passed by Congress.”In plain language, the legal loophole Nielsen addresses is the government requirement to not keep children in cages for extended periods. The pull factor she alludes to is parents seeking a better life for their children can be deterred with the knowledge that the life for their children in the United States will involve cages for an indeterminate period.Which was the original purpose of the family separation and zero tolerance policy. If parents seeking to enter the United States for asylum or immigration know their children will definitely suffer, they may be less likely to come.In April, Attorney General Jeff Sessions ordered his federal prosecutors in the Department of Justice to handle all entry into the United Stateswithout prior authorizationas a criminal matter. In the past, federal prosecutors could decide to not prosecute the crime and turn cases over to civil immigration courts for processing.But what type of crime is entry into the United States without prior authorization?	Liberal
On Wednesday, an anonymous White House official penned a scathing op-ed in the New York Times blasting President Donald Trump and his chaotic presidency. Trevor Noah ofThe Daily Show explained Wednesday night why he finds the editorial to be so terrifying.You know how every day we think theres no way the Trump presidency could get any crazier? Wrong again. pic.twitter.com/Ih5oLcF1FN— The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) September 6, 2018“Theres a secret group of people within the White House actively working to curb President Trump,” Noah said, “which is wild, because this means this whole time weve been dealing with the watered-down version of Trump.”Noah continued, offering his take on why the mutiny published in the Times is so scary.“Youre telling me that this is the better version?”he asked. “Like I thought this was the peak of crazy, this is Diet Trump? This is what youre saying?”Noah questioned why the author, and others within the administration, chose not to invoke the 25th Amendment despite writing that it was seriously considered.“The 25th Amendment is there so that you can use it,” Noah quipped. “It’s like there’s a sign that says ‘in case of emergency break glass’ but then these guys were like, ‘we could break the glass but then there’d be glass everywhere. Maybe we can try to steer the fire in a different direction.'”Noah added that although the author assures Americans that “there are adults in the room,” it “doesn’t make me feel any better.”The release of Bob Woodward’s explosive new book,Fear: Trump in the White House, Noah suggested, corroborates the editorial, even though Trump is attacking both as “fake news.”Noah concluded that although the op-ed was disturbing, it shouldn’t be surprising.“Obviously all this stuff is crazy, but at some point, we’ve got to stop saying that it’s a bombshell,” Noah said. “Trump is just doing a lot more Trump than we thought he would, but it’s not a bombshell.”What would be a bombshell, according to Noah, is “the day it comes out that Trump secretly works out, and reads Shakespeare, and teaches kids how to code, that’s when we can call it a bombshell.”“Right now,” Noah pleads, those who can control Trump “just need to break the glass.”Viewers on Twitter had some questions for Noah – like what the news will be like after Trump.Ever wounder what the news is going to be like after Trump?— Whitley for President (@JHWhitley) September 6, 2018Or if Twitter will ever be the same.Ever wonder if anyone will use Twitter after Trump?— Rick Downer (@rkdowner) September 6, 2018Noah made one person “laugh off some of the nausea.”you made me laugh off some of the nausea— harry monster (@MrWyked) September 6, 2018Will Trump’s presidency ever hit rock bottom?“If it turned out the president was a spirit sent to punish us all for our hubris, or his eyes glowed red and in them we all saw the horrors that lay beyond our universe, I wouldn’t be surprised.”I've long since given up on imagining where the floor is in this presidency. If it turned out the president was a spirit sent to punish us all for our hubris, or his eyes glowed red and in them we all saw the horrors that lay beyond our universe, I wouldn't be surprised.— R. Scott Troutt (@JonesboroAtty) September 6, 2018“Diet Trump.”"DIET TRUMP" lol— ryan willemsen (@WillemsenRyan) September 6, 2018“Break that glass!”BREAK THAT GLASS!!!!— Wendy Hammond (@WendyHammond16) September 6, 2018“There is literally no bottom.”There is literally no bottom— donna mcdonald (@dmfmcdonald) September 6, 2018Others noted that the American presidency has turned into a reality show.	Liberal
While the rest of the country finds itself scandalized by the publication of aNew York Times op-ed from an anonymous senior official in the Trump administration who confirmed s/he stays on board to shield the United States from President Donald Trump’s worst impulses, Hillary Clinton has not tweeted about Trump at all. In fact, she’s remained committed to one goal: Making sure Brett Kavanaugh, the president’s nomination for the Supreme Court, is not confirmed.MONDAY:On Monday, which, was also Labor Day, Clinton began laying out a slew of reasons why Kavanaugh should not take a seat on the nation’s highest court, particularly based on his record on workers’ rights.Happy Labor Day. There's no better time to talk about why workers rights would suffer if Brett Kavanaugh, whose hearings for a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court start tomorrow, is confirmed.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 3, 2018She pointed out that the Supreme Court, under the leadership of Chief Justice John Roberts, has “dealt some big blows to workers and unions in the last few years,” adding that a Kavanaugh confirmation would only cement a hard-right majority.The Roberts Court has dealt some big blows to workers and unions in the last few years. With Kavanaugh on the Court, a 5-4 hard-right majority would be even more aggressive in siding with corporations over people.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 3, 2018The Court's ruling in Janus v. AFSCME earlier this summer overturned a 40-year-old precedent to hold that public-sector workers with union contracts don't have to pay fees for collective bargaining expenses if they're not members.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 3, 2018That ruling won't just hurt seven million public-sector union workers with contracts. It'll hurt all workers, because union deals on wages and working conditions affect what businesses without unions do, too.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 3, 2018Among other things, Clinton warns, the court has “recently granted corporations the right to deny workers reproductive health care and made it harder for workers to sue businesses,” rulings which emphasize the “disparity in power between corporations and workers.” Kavanaugh, with his record, would “further” that trend.In other words, the Court has already been widening the disparity in power between corporations and workers. Kavanaugh's record from his time as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia shows he'd help further that trend for a generation.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 3, 2018She closed with a call to action for her supporters to call their Senators to #StopKavanaugh:Unions and labor movements are why we have workplace safety precautions, collective bargaining, weekends, minimum wages, and, yes, Labor Day. We can't afford more damage to workers' rights. Make sure your senators hear from you: Let's #StopKavanaugh.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 3, 2018TUESDAY:The next day, Clinton took to Twitter to make the case that Kavanaugh would also threaten the future of the Affordable Care Act, particularly pre-existing condition protections.Do you have a pre-existing condition? Do you care about someone who has one? Could you or someone you love ever get one? Then you should call your senators today to #StopKavanaugh from getting a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court. Here's why: pic.twitter.com/zgqwfdwTsF— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 4, 2018Challenges to the Affordable Care Act's protections for patients, including the notion that insurance companies can't refuse to insure you if you have a pre-existing condition, are already working their way through the lower courts.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 4, 2018The next Supreme Court justice will have a chance to rule on the fate of the Affordable Care Act, which helps millions of people get affordable health care. Brett Kavanaughs record shows hed be a threat to the law.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 4, 2018And once again, she pointed to why Kavanaugh’s record should concern us all.In 2011, Kavanaugh dissented when the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District Court upheld the consitutionality of the ACA. In 2017, he criticized Chief Justice John Roberts for ruling to uphold the law five years earlier.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 4, 2018Supreme Court seats are for life. Your senators' votes on Kavanaugh could affect whether you, your loved ones, and millions of other Americans can get affordable health care for decades.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 4, 2018WEDNESDAY:On Wednesday, Clinton addressed concerns that Kavanaugh would overturnRoe v. Wade, the landmark abortion rights case.	Liberal
The White House on Wednesday responded to an anonymous New York Times op-ed in which an unnamed administration official blasted President Donald Trump.The statement came from White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, however, the language used has Trump’s fingerprints all over it.JUST IN: Press Sec. Sanders calls on senior admin. official who wrote anonymous NY Times op-ed to "do the right thing and resign." pic.twitter.com/ZmKTijwWUZ— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 5, 2018The statement begins by touting Trump’s electoral victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016, about which Trump loves to boast.“Nearly 62 million people voted for President Donald J. Trump in 2016,” the statement said, “earning him 306 Electoral College votes – versus 232 for his opponent.” The White House called the unnamed author “gutless” and referred to the New York Times as “failing,” which is one of Trump’s favorite lines of attack against the publication.The White House continued in Trumpian style:We are disappointed, but not surprised, that the paper chose to publish this pathetic, reckless, and selfish op-ed. This is a new low for the so-called ‘paper of record.The statement then called for an apology from the Times and accused the paper of being part of the “liberal media’s concerted effort to discredit the president,” and that the anonymous source is “putting himself and his ego ahead of the will of the American people.”The statement said Trump’s accomplishments have been “astounding” and that “this coward” who penned the editorial “should do the right thing and resign.” Signed, Sarah Sanders. But it sure sounds like it was dictated by her boss.Shortly after the op-ed hit the airwaves, Trump himself issued a statement to reporters in which he said the Times was “failing” and that major news outlets would not survive without him.BREAKING: Trump responds after anonymous NYT Op-Ed."The New York Times is failing… The New York Times and CNN and all these phony media outlets will be out of business." pic.twitter.com/cXSXDzXl7e— Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) September 5, 2018“If I weren’t here, I believe the New York Times probably wouldn’texist,” Trump said. “And someday – and someday when I’m not president, which hopefully will be in about six-and-a-half years from now, the New York Times and CNN and all of these phony news outlets will be out of business, folks.”Trump also assailed the “anonymous editorial” as “gutless” before falsely claiming his poll numbers are “through the roof.”Trump later tweeted, “TREASON?”TREASON?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 5, 2018Speculation about the author’s identity is permeating Twitter.This is a typical, poorly written, negative statement from @PressSec and @POTUS. They have to deflect/blame someone else so that they don't have to take responsibility for the fact that this administration is the worst in history. They have failed the US people and they know it.— CommonSense (@slounsbury) September 5, 2018Going to be awkward for Pence to resign when he's *this* close to being President.— edpowell (@edwardpowell) September 5, 2018March right down the hall and tell VP Pence how you feel about his article— Herb Marselas (@HerbMarselas) September 5, 2018Watch its Ivanka!. lol— Jacob (@Jacob21584619) September 5, 2018Dang, I think prolific anon source close to the President John Barron wrote it and absolutely he should resign.— Pantsuit Patty (@OneOf65Million) September 5, 2018Press Secretary David Dennison wrote this.— Terry Jones (@tdjones53) September 5, 2018Others called on Sanders to “do the right thing” and resign herself.	Liberal
In his second interview with the Daily Caller in as many days, President Donald Trump on Wednesday boasted that he possessed intimate pictures of former FBI Director James Comey and Special Counsel Robert Mueller, whom the president often claims are “best friends.”Trump: I could show you 100 photos of Mueller and Comey "hugging and kissing each other" https://t.co/L8W82PO1YJ pic.twitter.com/NSMO0rXb3X— The Hill (@thehill) September 5, 2018Trump was asked if he had interviewed Mueller as a potential FBI director, a position Mueller had previously held under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.“I liked him,” Trump recalled of Mueller, “but I didnt give him the job.”When pressed on why not, Trump said he had a “business dispute” with Mueller and that “hes Comeys best friend.”Trump thenmade a stunning claim – that he has pictures of Comey and Mueller “hugging and kissing.”I could give you 100 pictures of him and Comey hugging and kissing each other. You know, hes Comeys best friend.This occurred moments after Trump had reiterated his belief that Mueller’s investigation into Trump-Russia collusion and obstruction of justice is “illegal.”“I view it as an illegal investigation,” Trump groaned. “It shouldve never been started. It shouldve never been allowed to start.” The president added that he is “not the target of this investigation, just in case you dont realize.”I consider it to be an illegal investigation. It shouldve never been allowed to have happened.The president also referred to Mueller and his team of prosecutors as “17 angry Democrats,” however the typical line of attack is “13 angry Democrats” (Mueller is a life-long Republican).No one believes Trump has pictures of Comey and Mueller kissing, but here is one of Trump kissing Comey.Here's one of some guy giving Comey a peck on the cheek and holding his hand. pic.twitter.com/KRY6aMEctb— Ellen Garrison (@EllenTrailerDog) September 5, 2018Social media remembers a video of Trump and his now TV lawyer Rudy Giuliani embracing – while Giuliani is dressed in drag.I can show video of trump & giuliani kissing! @realDonaldTrump @RudyGiuliani https://t.co/5Dzr9q1iXm— 4q2 (@ForQ2) September 5, 2018No, but I've got Trump nuzzling Giuliani in a dress. pic.twitter.com/wLmVO9AXGy— OttolineMorrell (@OttolineMorrell) September 5, 2018Regardless, Twitter immediately fired back at Trump. Put up or shut up, Mr. President.What? pic.twitter.com/3dTxW7W65M— The Modern Bostonian (@modernbostonian) September 5, 2018Same.Trump tells the Daily Caller he could give them 100 pictures of Comey and Mueller "hugging and kissing" each other. Has anyone seen a picture of that? https://t.co/Md1y0tgRG1— Josh Dawsey (@jdawsey1) September 5, 2018Great! Show us! I'll be over here…waiting.— stable covfefe genius (@igintl) September 5, 2018Bring them on, let us see what you got @realDonaldTrump. How many pictures do you think Mueller has of you with Putin?— Glenn Tabor #GlovesOff (@kobelicious1) September 5, 2018Call his bluff and have SHS share them at a briefing— Jaynie's Got a Bun (@FreeGirlNowNYC) September 5, 2018 pic.twitter.com/mJ6m9WSD6U— Dana Volk (@DanaVolk2) September 5, 2018How… why? We have questions.why would he have pictures??????— Jeff Stutsman (@jeffey29) September 5, 2018Where are the pictures?— Jack Govan (@jack_govan) September 5, 2018Okay Im out – this is simply insane: Trump Claims There Are literally '100 Pictures' of Mueller and Comey 'Hugging and Kissing Each Other' https://t.co/laSzE0YZxb via @mediaite— (((DeanObeidallah))) (@DeanObeidallah) September 5, 2018Thats far more than you could show of @MELANIATRUMP hugging and kissing @realDonaldTrump— Richard (@RichardAEllis) September 5, 2018Ouch.Others alluded to other ridiculous claims Trump has made.	Liberal
The New York Times published an opinion piece on September 5, written by an anonymous source from within the Trump administration. While The New York Times knows the writer’s identity, in case anyone worries the person is not really a “senior administration official” like the OpEd claims, others can only speculate.The piece is titled and subtitled:“I Am Part of the Resistance Inside the Trump Administration:I work for the president but like-minded colleagues and I have vowed to thwart parts of his agenda and his worst inclinations.”It may be cold comfort in this chaotic era, but Americans should know that there are adults in the room. We fully recognize what is happening. And we are trying to do whats right even when Donald Trump wont, says a senior Trump administration official https://t.co/l2C9qONCHt NYT Opinion (@nytopinion) September 5, 2018Dan Bloom is among the many whoafter reading The Times OpEdtried to discern the author. Blooman audio producer for Panoply podcasts for the Slate groupshared his theory on Twitter Wednesday.His best guess? Vice President Mike Pence.In his Twitter thread, Bloom outlined why he thinks Pence is the mystery writer behind the provocative piece. And it all came down to a single word.The @nytimes just published an anonymous op-ed from a “senior administration official.” I’d like to posit a guess as to who wrote it. Getting my @ashleyfeinberg on began with a single word that jumped out at me… https://t.co/ajS2JI8WH2 Dan Bloom (@danbl00m) September 5, 2018The word is “LODESTAR.” Note that it comes in the same paragraph praising John McCain. That would rule out flame-throwers like Stephen Miller and Dan Scavino and suggest someone with Senate ties. This reveal is not going to take long. pic.twitter.com/NwnUtvFlko Dan Bloom (@danbl00m) September 5, 2018Lodestar means “a star that is used to guide the course of a ship, especially Polaris.” Bloom points out the rarity of the word’s use in common speech.But he still checked to see if other likely suspects used the word.“Lodestar” just seems like an unusual word to use in general, not to mention in an op-ed that’s going to be widely read. It has this whiff of sanctimony. So I search for John Kelly and James Mattis ever having used the word “lodestar.” Nothing. But then… Dan Bloom (@danbl00m) September 5, 2018…an example pops up of Vice President Mike Pence using the word “lodestar” in a speech at the UN in September 2017. https://t.co/CI1PUzDUdA pic.twitter.com/OrOYrFgP0M Dan Bloom (@danbl00m) September 5, 2018Mike Pence’s name comes up when Bloom looks for the word online in relation to White House senior officials. More than once.Two months later, Vice President Mike Pence speaks at the Jack Kemp Leadership Award Dinner. He drops “lodestar” again.https://t.co/DwLGEIJd4J pic.twitter.com/B1kQIb6viF Dan Bloom (@danbl00m) September 5, 2018Like clockwork, in two month intervals.Two more months later (like clockwork,) February 2018. Vice President Mike Pence speaking in Tokyo, alongside Japanese PM Shinzo Abe. Place your bets… another “lodestar.” https://t.co/OGIWVf2QxV pic.twitter.com/88vJJfVamM Dan Bloom (@danbl00m) September 5, 2018Bloom then found examples of Pence using the obscure term prior to becoming Vice President, like back in 2011.Lest you believe Pence’s “lodestar” proclivities began with his Vice Presidency, enjoy this little ditty from 2011. https://t.co/hJyO0CvM8w pic.twitter.com/yDxq7LElPd Dan Bloom (@danbl00m) September 5, 2018And thus…	Liberal
President Donald Trump is reportedly scrambling in an effort to minimize the damage of renowned journalist Bob Woodward’s new bookFear: Trump in the White House. Despite repeated attempts from Trump and White House officials to discredit the piece, it’s built on hundreds of hours of interviews with White House officialsand they’re on tape.Though White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders’s attempts to paint Woodward’s sources as disgruntled employees, Woodward insists that many are still working in the White House. And though he may not admit it, the president seems to know that too.Trump, according to CNN, is on a mission to suss out officials who may have spoken to Woodward.It seems there's now a real witch hunt going on in the West Wing, with President Trump eager to determine who did — and didn't — talk to Woodward. Our new story: https://t.co/pCSHv2hlOX— Jeff Zeleny (@jeffzeleny) September 5, 2018After Sanders, Secretary of Defense James Mattis, and Chief of Staff General John Kelly released fervent denials of the quotes attributed to them and of the book’s contents, Trump is listening for whose silences are the loudest.In his efforts to do so, it would appear he’s endowingFear witheven more validity.Trump is calling Bob Woodward's book a work of fiction, while simultaneously ranting that he wants a search for every person who spoke to Woodward. The people who, um, told woodward fiction, I guess? Can't have it both ways, Stable Genius.— Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) September 5, 2018trump says Woodwards book is fiction, yet is running a witch hunt to find out who spoke to Woodward. He wouldnt do that if the book was made up of lies— Can You Hear Me Shaking My Head? (@CanYouHearMeSMH) September 5, 2018This book is TRUE and we all know it even @realDonaldTrump— Jean Ingerson (@jmingerson725) September 5, 2018As per Trump being Trump: He says Woodwards book is fiction but, still desperately wants to know who the leak who spoke to him was. pic.twitter.com/LwrSH8SakR— Evan Morgenstern (@evanjm02) September 5, 2018It’s beginning to have some outsiders concerned with the ability of the Trump administration to do its job.	Liberal
After years of violating the terms of service (TOS) agreements for Facebook, YouTube, Spotify, Apple and Twitter, four of the five platforms finally removed Alex Jones and his Infowars content from their sites and banned him. Twitterafter a CNN expose gave examples of the many times Jones also violated their TOSeventually gave both Jones and Infowars a brief suspension on their platform as well.As a result of repeatedly violating the various platforms’ terms of service, Jones got banned. And because Jones got banned, his revenue dropped drastically.For those unfamiliar with Jones, his Infowars program consists of theatrical, ranting presentations of conspiracy theories interspersed with plugs for his survivalist gear and nutritional supplements. In the past, Jones stated the attacks on 9/11 were an inside job, liberals planned to start a civil war on July 4, 2018, and school shootings were hoaxes. He also called for his listeners to take up weapons against various people of groups he deemed enemies.Much of the hate speech and calls for violence in Jones’ rants violates various TOS he agreed to when setting up on the platforms that banned him. But facing a much smaller reach and revenue stream, Jones now touts a new conspiracy theory painting himself as the victim of a vast left wing Democratic effort to deplatform conservative voices on social media.Jones still operates his own website, but he maintains it is his right to force other private companies to allow his content on their platforms even if it does violate their terms of service. He fails to explain why, except to claim it is a conspiracy against him because he is a conservative voice.For reasons of self-promotion, Jones attended a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on Wednesday. The stated purpose of the meeting involvedelection interference on social media. But because executives from Google, Facebook and Twitter attended, Jones declared he should testify and the stated purpose of the hearing should change to match his personal agenda.That failed to happen.Instead, Jones waited for a press gaggle to form during a hearing break so he could interrupt it. He got his chance when Florida Republican Senator Marco Rubio stopped in the hallway outside the hearing to take questions from a few reporters.Jones immediately interrupted both the reporters asking questions and Rubio when he attempted to answer them.Watch CNBC footagewhere Jones can be heard clearlyhere:‘Don’t touch me again, man’: Sen. Marco Rubio faces off against InfoWars conspiracy monger Alex Jones in hallway heckle spat https://t.co/d7o4wlvD3w pic.twitter.com/Z9Rj3ufv0O CNBC (@CNBC) September 5, 2018And HillTV footage from a different anglewhere Jones can be seen clearly but not always heardhere:Rubio to Alex Jones: “Don’t touch me, man.” https://t.co/nwQyHjRpxt pic.twitter.com/deDff58teP HILLTV (@HillTVLive) September 5, 2018During the course of the exchange, Rubio continues to ask who Jones is, both to the reporters in front of him and to Jones himself. Jones repeats his website url several times and claims Rubio “knows who Infowars is” because Jones has “tens of billions of views” and is “bigger than Rush Limbaugh.”Jones tries several times to get cameras and the reporters to focus on him as well as get Rubio’s attention. By interrupting Rubio…	Liberal
Former NFL star Colin Kaepernick revealed his new ad with Nike on Wednesday after the athlete entered into an agreement to be the face of the 30th anniversary of the company’s “Just Do It” campaign.In the ad, Kaepernick’s voice complements footage of young athletes, some with disabilities, striving to be the best performers they can be.Believe in something. Even if it means sacrificing everything. #JustDoIt pic.twitter.com/x5TnU7Z51i— Colin Kaepernick (@Kaepernick7) September 5, 2018“If they laugh at what you think you can do, good, stay the way,” the ad begins. “Because what non-believers fail to understand is that calling a dream crazy is not an insult. It’s a compliment.”The ad journeys through footage of athletes of all ages, races, abilities, and genders, with Kaepernick encouraging viewers to strive to be the bestin the world at what they are doing.“Be the fastest ever,” Kaepernick says. “Don’t settle for homecoming queen or linebacker. Do both.”Don’t believe you have to be like anybody to be somebody.The ad then pivots to professional sports, citing LeBron James’ dedication of a school, before cutting to Kaepernick.“Believe in something, even if it means sacrificing everything,” Kaepernick says. “So don’t ask if your dreams are crazy. Ask if they’re crazy enough.”Kaepernick starred in the inspiring ad after sacrificing his career as an NFL quarterback while protesting police brutality against people of color. He famously “took a knee” during an NFL game in 2016, sparking a national debate over free speech and whether NFL players should be forced to stand during the national anthem.On Tuesday, President Donald Trump said Nike was sending a “terrible message” by signing with Kaepernick.“I think its a terrible message. I have Nike is a tenant of mine. They pay me a lot of rent. But I think its a terrible, horrible message that theyre sending,” Trump said in an interview with the Daily Caller. “And the purpose of them doing it, you know, maybe there is a reason for them doing it.”Trump did acknowledge, however, that there are legitimate arguments on both sides of the debate.“In another way, it is what this country is all about,” Trump conceded, “that you have certain freedoms to do things that other people think you shouldn’t do, but I personally am on a different side of it.”Reactions to the ad were mixed on social media. Many praised Nike and Kaepernick for standing up for free speech and social justice.“That was powerful.”That was powerful— Brandon Neely (@BrandonTXNeely) September 5, 2018Bro u lifted me up — jay (@jaymartinez215) September 5, 2018Got me crying at work. — Je suis Michelle (@tafkam08) September 5, 2018You are a hero. pic.twitter.com/dfedUtw8BA— Amie (@AmieNicoleLICSW) September 5, 2018@StevoGB10 @Joxway_  what a commercial.— David Hasid (@dhballin24) September 5, 2018Chills man.— Stephen Barisone (@StevoGB10) September 5, 2018Thank you for everything you are doing and everything that you have been willing to sacrifice. pic.twitter.com/vLPtfcMuGL— | k e m e i u n | (@skuytercliffe) September 5, 2018Teary eyes and goosebumps. That was dope.— American Dreamer (@JA__King) September 5, 2018Still my QB pic.twitter.com/tYq5uTUa0U— Mark (@myP0ny17) September 5, 2018Forever and always!  pic.twitter.com/VBxCMF9oek— Trash Lord (@brendan_ables) September 5, 2018Even a veteran chimed in to support Kaepernick.https://twitter.com/MelaB1986/status/1037399289239150592Not everyone agreed.	Liberal
It’s only the second day of an already contentious confirmation process for Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court. This time, he’s come under fire for a rather roundabout response to a “hypothetical” question asked by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA)It all began when Feinstein asked Kavanaugh whether a sitting president shouldbe “required to respond to a subpoena.”“That’s a hypothetical question about what would be an elaboration or a difference from U.S.v. Nixon‘s precise holding and I think going with the Justice [Ruth Bader] Ginsburg principlewhich is really not the Justice Ginsburg alone principle, it’s everyone’s principle on the current Supreme Courtand as a matter of the canons of judicial independence, I can’t give you an answer on that hypothetical question,”Kavanaugh replied to what many consider an unmistakeably straightforward question.Sen. Dianne Feinstein: "Can a sitting president be required to respond to a subpoena?"Brett Kavanaugh: "… I can't give you an answer on that hypothetical question" https://t.co/znxp3OkED4 pic.twitter.com/PWT9ppC7FL— This Week (@ThisWeekABC) September 5, 2018“So you can’t give me an answer on whether a president can respond to a subpoena from a court of law?” Feinstein asked.“My understanding is that you’re asking me to give my view on a potential hypothetical and that’s something that’s every-each of the eight Justices currently sitting on the Supreme Court, when they were sitting in my seat, declined to decide potential hypothetical cases,” Kavanaugh replied, before turning, once again, to the “precedent” established inUnited States v. Nixon, which found that presidents must obey subpoenas and produce requested documentation.“As a nominee, I follow the precedent of the nominees who’ve been here before and, as a matter of judicial independence not give you a precise answer on a hypothetical that could come before me,” he added.Kavanaugh’s response didn’t go over well with critics who accused him of dodging the question entirely. One of them was Feinstein herself.If Brett Kavanaugh truly believes the president isnt above the law, he should have said the president must comply with a subpoena. Theres no reason Brett Kavanaugh couldnt have given a straight answer. pic.twitter.com/mD2I5RtET4— Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) September 5, 2018Another was Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) who pointed out that Kavanaugh was part of the team which subpoenaed President Bill Clinton and, thus, was not answering a hypothetical at all.When asked if the President of the United States must abide by a subpoena, #Kavanaugh replied, "you're asking me to give an answer to a hypothetical," which he "cannot do."Judge Kavanaugh: you spent 3 years working for Ken Starr. This isn't hypothetical. Stop equivocating.— Senator Ben Cardin (@SenatorCardin) September 5, 2018Others were more pointed.This morning Brett Kavanaugh wouldnt say whether a President can be subject to a subpoena.He doesnt have to because he already said a President is above the law.This is why Trump appointed him.This dangerous extremist cannot be allowed to sit on the Supreme Court.— Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) September 5, 2018Senator Feinstein asks Brett Kavanaugh, "Can a sitting President be required to respond to a subpoena?" Watch him completely avoid answering a straightforward question. Alarming given that Trump's lawyers will likely fight a subpoena from the Mueller probe.pic.twitter.com/NHWU0QmE2U— Adam Best (@adamcbest) September 5, 2018BREAKING: Sen. Dianne Feinstein Just Asked Brett Kavanaugh "Can a sitting president be required to respond to a subpoena" Brett kavanaugh said it was a hypothetical questionNo it's not This could actually happen if Trump is subpoenaed by Robert Mueller— PoliticsVideoChannel (@politvidchannel) September 5, 2018Q: Is the president above the law?Brett Kavanaugh: _()_/Q: Can a sitting president be required to respond to a subpoena?Kavanaugh: _()_/Q: Does the president have an absolute right to pardon himself?Kavanaugh: ooh that's a toughie, lemme thinkKavanaugh: _()_/— Jennifer Morrow (@jenniferemorrow) September 5, 2018@BrettKavanaugh @realDonaldTrump If the average citizen has to respond to a subpoena, let alone a jury duty notice, @POTUS should be required to abide by the same laws.— TheresaAguillonWolfe (@ttawolfe) September 5, 2018Kavanaugh’s nomination has not been without controversy, much of it generated by outrage at the notion that a president under federal investigation could nominate someone with the potential to sway the courts opinion in the event of an indictment.To that end, its obvious why the president ultimately picked Kavanaugh, who is perhaps best known for the leading role he played indrafting the Starr report, which advocated for the impeachment of President Bill Clinton and whoseviews about when to impeach a president are likely to remain contentious subjects during his confirmation hearing.Kavanaugh, for his part, has sinceexpressedmisgivings about the Starr report; in 2009, he wrote that Clinton should have been spared the investigation, saying that indicting a sitting president would ill serve the public interest, especially in times of financial or national-security crisis. Writing in theMinnesota Law Review, he suggested that Congressshould pass laws that would protect a president from civil and criminal lawsuits until they leave office. He added that there was always a way to remove a bad-behaving or lawbreaking President.If the president does something dastardly, he wrote, the impeachment process is available.	Liberal
Many individual cell-phone consumers are unfortunately familiar with providers practice of throttling, or intentionally slowing down internet speed and data transfer rates.However, some say Verizon, one of the worlds largest telecommunication companies, took things too far when it throttled data usage of the Santa Clara County Fire Department while firefighters were battling the Mendocino Complex Fire in July, the largest wildfire the state has seen to date.Because of the elimination of net neutrality, which has precluded the Federal Communications Commission from regulating internet service providers, 13 Democratic U.S. representatives are demanding the Federal Trade Commission take up the cause and investigate whether or not Verizons actions were deceptive.We believe the Federal Communications Commission, as the expert regulatory agency, should be responsible for the oversight of public safety networks and communications networks as a whole, wrote U.S. Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.) in a late-August letter to FTC Chairman Joseph Simons, adding:Unfortunately, with its repeal of the 2015 Open Internet Order, the FCC has abdicated its jurisdiction over broadband communications and walked away from protecting consumers, including public safety agencies. We, therefore, call on the FTC to protect consumers from unfair or deceptive acts or practices stemming from this incident.The first discovery of Verizon restricting the data of emergency responders came to light as evidence in a lawsuit seeking to reinstate net neutrality. In that instance, Verizon blamed the throttling, reported in December and June, on a one-time communication error. However, after the throttling continued during the Mendocino Complex Fire, Verizon admitted it was doing it intentionally, and claimed it was because the fire department needed to upgrade its plan.In the midst of our response to the Mendocino Complex Fire, County Fire discovered the data connection for OES 5262 [the departments mobile command and incident support vehicle] was being throttled by Verizon, and data rates had been reduced to 1/200, or less, than the previous speeds, wrote Santa Clara County Fire Chief Anthony Bowden in an addendum to the net-neutrality legal brief, noting that:These reduced speeds severely interfered with the OES 5262s ability to function effectively. My Information Technology staff communicated directly with Verizon via email about the throttling, requesting it be immediately lifted for public safety purposes.Verizon elected not to lift the throttling, instead indicating that County Fire would have to switch to a new data plan at more than twice the cost, and they would only remove throttling after we contacted the Department that handles billing and switched to the new data plan,” Bowden wrote.	Liberal
While President Donald Trump peppered his Twitter feed and interviews with attempts to discredit Bob Woodward and his new book, Fear: Trump in the White House, more excerpts came out. The latest involves Trump and his reaction to the violence at the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia in August 2017.One personHeather Heyerdied and 19 others injured when a 20-year-old man with ties to white supremacist groups drove his car into a crowd of counter protesters. Trump’s initial reaction infamously blamed “many sides.”After the attack and various public statements by the President, Woodward’s book claims Trump stated:“That was the biggest f—ing mistake Ive made… [and the] worst speech Ive ever given.”Only the President did not mean when he refused to condemn white supremacists, the Ku Klux Klan or neo-Nazis. Trump referred to the speech where he did condemn racism and racists.Immediately following the murder of Heather Heyer by a white supremacist and the injuring of 19 others, Trump tried to remain neutral. While he said the attack was bad, there were guilty parties and bad people on many sides.On the Saturday that the attack occurred, the President stated:“We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence, on many sides. On many sides.”Trump’s initial stance on white supremacy, the KKK and neo-Nazis blew up online andaccording to Fearamong the White House staff. Both Chief of Staff John Kelly andNational Economic Council Director Gary Cohn threatened to resign.Ken Frazier of Merck Pharmaceuticals resigned from the President’s advisory council in protest over Trump’s remarks.So Mondayreading from a teleprompterthe President condemned racism. In his prepared remarks, Trump read:“Racism is evil and those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists and other hate groups that are repugnant to what we hold dear as Americans.”Later, in front of his aides and advisers, the President made it clear he hated the speech he just made condemning white supremacy and racism. It was now that he stated, “That was the biggest f—ing mistake Ive made…” and the “worst speech Ive ever given.”While Trump may get all of his remaining White House staff mentioned in Fear to sign statements disavowing Woodward’s book so the President can post them on Twitter, this particular claim from Fear easily rings true based on public records.One day after the President read from a teleprompter to condemn racism, he spoke candidly to reporters at Trump Tower in New York City. He reiterated his initial statements claiming blame for an attack by a white supremacist on a crowd of counter protesters rested on “both sides.”On that Tuesday in August 2017, Trump stated:“I will tell you something. I watched those very closely, much more closely than you people watched it. And you had a group on one side that was bad, and you had a group on the other side that was also very violent.”“And nobody wants to say that. But I’ll say it right now. You had a group on the other side that came charging in without a permit, and they were very, very violent.”While Trump’s Tuesday walkback of his Monday official statement garnered mostly criticism, it did draw high praise from one source.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders took toGood Morning, Americathis morning to offset the wealth of allegations in Fear: Trump in the White House,a new book by legendaryWashington Postassociate editor Bob Woodward. She also claimed that Trump has had more success in his first two years than any other president.Its a lot of anonymous sources. What I can tell you is: Ive worked alongside the presidentunder the presidentfor the last three years. I was part of his campaign; Ive been part of the administration, and everything Ive seen so far from this book doesnt depict whats going on in the building behind me.If the things that were said in this book were true, there is no way that this president could be as successful as he has been”FULL INTERVIEW: White House responds to bombshell book–@GStephanopoulos is speaking with the @PressSec live this morning: https://t.co/0wZJnpowI9 pic.twitter.com/UzyO0vpy01— Good Morning America (@GMA) September 5, 2018The claim Sanders made to defend the White House–that the president has had more success than any of his predecessors in his first two yearsappears to hold little if any weight.We know @PressSec makes stuff up. Here are some FACTS:Wages have declinedHealth care costs have risenCorruption increased Deficit exploded Debt got even worseInflation increasedN Korea expanded nuclear fuelBut the top 1% did get much richer. So there's that. https://t.co/UkMU8A6gGE— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) September 5, 2018Deregulationjudgesmiddle class tax reliefreduce spendingcomprehensive MidEast strategy drain swampput US above adversariesdefund Planned Parenthoodrespect Constitutionrespect rule of lawrespect veteransrespect 1st amndtrespect checks&balances— Conservatives-In-Exile (@_political_p) September 5, 2018Did Sarah Huckabee Sanders really just say that Trump has had the most success first two years in office in modern history? What? Theres no way I heard that correctly. #GMA pic.twitter.com/ZvrU9Itubv— Kayla (@kayla_kayys) September 5, 2018Laughable. What success? Multiple failed biz ventures, bankruptcies, failed marriages, unpaid bills,multiple law suits settled rather than be exposed in court, close associates spilling the truth on degenerate behavior.— Joan Anzelmo (@JoanAnzelmo) September 5, 2018That's the weakness in her argument. He hasn't had any success. He's just feeding off of Obama's success which will soon come crashing down.— David Spivak (@dsspivak) September 5, 2018In addition, Sanders has been known to lie, whereas Woodward’s reporting for the past five decades has been considered fair and reliable. This has led many to believe Woodward’s words over the White House’s.Let's reduce today's revelations to a simple choice: Do you believe @PressSec Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who has made multiple statements to the American people that were not true, or do you believe Bob Woodward, who helped the Post win 2 Pulitzers? I'm going with @realBobWoodward. https://t.co/tKlG0Rlvwx— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) September 5, 2018Retweet if you think Bob Woodward is more truthful than Sarah Huckabee Sanders.— Mike Levin (@MikeLevinCA) September 4, 2018Bob Woodward has more credibility in his little fingernail than you have in your entire White House. No one believes Sarah Sanders, period. The Generals are believable, but I can't be the only one secretly hoping to see them on the witness stand making these same statements.— (((Jo Yaffe))) (@Jo_Yaffe) September 5, 2018Laughable. What success? Multiple failed biz ventures, bankruptcies, failed marriages, unpaid bills,multiple law suits settled rather than be exposed in court, close associates spilling the truth on degenerate behavior.— Joan Anzelmo (@JoanAnzelmo) September 5, 2018Fear: Trump in the White Houseuses hundreds of hours of interviews and numerous documents to describe just how inadequate President Donald Trump’s own administration believes him to be. The book recounts testaments of various members decrying Trump’s intelligence and even stealing papers off of his desk to prevent him from signing them.However, rebuttals of the book from the president and his White House are already rife with contradictions and outright lies.	Liberal
During the first day of his Senate confirmation hearings on Tuesday, Judge Brett Kavanaugh snubbed Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter Jaime was killed during this year’s mass shooting in Parkland, Florida. The White House tried to defend Kavanaugh’s actions, but multiple videorecordings showwhat really happened.Fred Guttenberg, father of Parkland victim, Jaime, tries to shakes hands with Brett Kavanaugh: "My daughter was murdered at Parkland." White House says an "unidentified individual approached" Kavanaugh, but "before the judge was able to shake his hand, security had intervened." pic.twitter.com/IerpDMOW0h— NBC News (@NBCNews) September 4, 2018Guttenberg is seen approaching Kavanaugh with his hand extended while introducing himself: “Excuse me, I’m Fred Guttenberg. My daughter was murdered at Parkland,” he said to Kavanaugh.Kavanaugh scans Guttenberg, stares, turns away and leaves the area, all while looking like he can’t wait to get away from Guttenberg.“Okay, keep walking away, have a good day,” Guttenberg yells at Kavanaugh.The White House tried to defend Kavanaugh’s actions, claiming the video shows “an unidentified individual” approaching the Supreme Court nominee.“Before the Judge was able to shake his hand,”Deputy White House Press Secretary Raj Shah tweeted, “security had intervened.”As Judge Kavanaugh left for his lunch break, an unidentified individual approached him. Before the Judge was able to shake his hand, security had intervened. https://t.co/ylOhtA1s6G— Raj Shah (@RajShah45) September 4, 2018Shah shared a video which “clearly shows” the White House is lying. Kavanaugh waits for Guttenberg to identify himself, before turning away in disgust. Security did not intervene until Kavanaugh was walking away, which destroys the White House’s claim.NEW VIDEO of hearing room clearly shows security intervened when Judge #Kavanaugh was approached. pic.twitter.com/ZGRRCcWroW— Raj Shah (@RajShah45) September 4, 2018Guttenberg also tweeted following the incident, and it matches what is easily visible from multiple angles – Kavanaugh consciously and callously chose to dismiss the father of a school shooting victim.“Just walked up to Judge Kavanaugh as morning session ended. Put out my hand to introduce myself as Jaime Guttenberg’s dad,” Guttenberg recalled on Twitter Tuesday afternoon. “He pulled his hand back, turned his back to me and walked away.”I guess he did not want to deal with the reality of gun violence.Just walked up to Judge Kavanaugh as morning session ended.  Put out my hand to introduce myself as Jaime Guttenberg's dad.  He pulled his hand back, turned his back to me and walked away.  I guess he did not want to deal with the reality of gun violence.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 4, 2018The Associated Press’s Andrew Harnik captured the moment Kavanaugh noped out on Guttenberg.Fred Guttenberg, the father of Jamie Guttenberg who was killed in the shooting in Parkland, Fla., left, tries to shake hands with @realDonaldTrump's Supreme Court nom., Brett Kavanaugh, right, during a lunch break. Kavanaugh did not shake his hand. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) @ap pic.twitter.com/smcCGuLT6X— Andrew Harnik (@andyharnik) September 4, 2018C-SPAN’s cameras caught the snub on tape.Trumps team will try to brush Kavanaughs diss of a Parkland Dad  aside by saying security intervened. But heres the video, and it offers an even more damning glance into the soul of a man very comfortable ignoring us commoners. pic.twitter.com/E2xqeK2sIz— Rob Bennett (@rob_bennett) September 4, 2018As did ABC.Liespic.twitter.com/0BlSL2r6SW— Andrew Wortman (@AmoneyResists) September 5, 2018And so did the Washington Post. pic.twitter.com/yuWX1mnZmO— SeriouslyUS? (@USseriously) September 4, 2018Every single recording shows Kavanaugh deliberately ignoring Guttenberg.Security clearly allowed Guttenberg to approach Kavanaugh.Security walks up, then waits while the interaction is happening.  No one makes Kavanaugh turn away.  He does that all on his own.  https://t.co/Z7O1cMOebS— O. Douglas Price (@ODouglasPrice) September 5, 2018Twitter users called out the White House for its flagrant disregard for the truth.	Liberal
Blue jean manufacturer Levi Strauss & Co. has announced it will launch a new three-tiered initiative to benefit groups working to prevent gun violence.The first: Levi Strauss willdonate more than $1 million over the next four years to groups and youth activists working to end gun violence, establishingthe Safer Tomorrow Fund.The second: Levi Strauss has partnered with gun control group Everytown for Gun Safety and other executives to form Everytown Business Leaders for Gun Safety, which CEO and President Chip Bergh says believe, as we do, that business has a critical role to play in and a moral obligation to do something about the gun violence epidemic in this country.The third: Levi Strausswill double all donations made by their employees to the Safer Tomorrow Fund.The move soon prompted a response from the NRA, which claimed Levis Strauss “singled out pro-2A [Second Amendment] customers.” The organization added that Everytown for Gun Safety wants to “destroy” the Second Amendment..@LeviStraussCo took a public stance against the #2A and singled out pro-2A customers. They have partnered with @Everytown for "Gun Safety"  who does nothing to promote gun safety. Everytown's mission is to destroy the 2A and disarm law-abiding citizens. https://t.co/Vxz5IhoDHk— NRA (@NRA) September 5, 2018Levi’s announcement quickly garnered condemnation from many people who agreed with the NRA’s stance. Some even said they’d “burn” their blue jeans, mirroring actions taken by incensed consumers who yesterday burned Nike sneakers to protest that company’s decision to name NFL player Colin Kaepernick, whose decision not to stand for the “Star Spangled Banner” launched a national debate on police brutality and the inequities suffered by people of color, as the face of its “Just Do It” advertising campaign.@LeviStraussCo Your choice disrespect the U.S. Constitution & it's 2nd Amendment as well as NRA Members. My choice, No more Levi Strauss products in my home!  @NRA @NRATV— Fred Walker Jr. (@FredWalkerJr1) September 5, 2018Looking forward to spending all the money I WOULD have spent on Levi products, on guns and on donations to @NRA . Communism will always be defeated by armed Americans, and now Levi Strauss will be defeated too.— JamesMa75511555 (@JamesMa75511555) September 5, 2018Levi Strauss & Co and Mike Bloomberg combined, do not have enough money to deny citizens their #2A right.If Chip Bergh could cite a single gun-control proposal that would have stopped Newtown or Parkland shooters, Ill let him come to my home and melt my guns.@NRA—   (@M0L0NL4BE) September 5, 2018Ill #NeverAgain buy @LeviStraussCo, theyre at war against Second Amendment. https://t.co/j1x46nmUh5 @nra @RealJamesWoods @CarmineZozzora— AWR Hawkins (@AWRHawkins) September 4, 2018I guess I bought my last pair of Levi Strauss Jeans. I can burn them along side of my Nike sneakers. #NRA https://t.co/zAeYuK5hLW— Florida Skeptic (@ClayWelsh) September 5, 2018In an article forFortune, Bergh wrote that Levi’ssimply cannot stand by silently when it comes to issues that threaten the very fabric of the communities where we live and work.While taking a stand can be unpopular with some, doing nothing is no longer an option.”You may wonder why a company that doesnt manufacture or sell guns is wading into this issue, but for us, its simple, Bergh wrote. Americans shouldnt have to live in fear of gun violence. Its an issue that affects all of us  all generations and all walks of life.”	Liberal
During a break in the Senate confirmation hearing for President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Fred Guttenbergthe father of 14-year-old murdered Marjory Stoneman Douglas student, Jaimeapproached Brett Kavanaugh. Cameras captured audio of Guttenberg introducing himself and attempting to shake Kavanaugh’s hand.Without a response, SCOTUS nominee Kavanaugh refuses the handshake, turns his back on Guttenberg and walks away.News of Kavanaugh’s deliberate snub of Guttenbergdespite hearing who he was and why he was therespread on social media, complete with video footage capturing Kavanaugh’s reaction.Just walked up to Judge Kavanaugh as morning session ended. Put out my hand to introduce myself as Jaime Guttenberg’s dad. He pulled his hand back, turned his back to me and walked away. I guess he did not want to deal with the reality of gun violence. Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 4, 2018Watch this. Then watch it again.And then re-read all the puff pieces about how Brett Kavanaugh is so nice.He wouldnt even shake Fred Guttenbergs hand, whose daughter was murdered at Parkland.Deplorable. pic.twitter.com/27WBH2Y9Vk Nathan H. Rubin (@NathanHRubin) September 4, 2018Wow, here you can hear @fred_guttenberg telling Kavanaugh that his daughter “was murdered in Parkland,” and Kavanaugh whirls and walks away pic.twitter.com/VdkTij2Vdp Tommy Christopher (@tommyxtopher) September 4, 2018But shared trauma can form a strong bond and Kavanaugh’s snub hurt more than just Fred Guttenberg and the memory of his daughter Jaime. Other students who survived the mass shooting at the Parkland, Florida, high school quickly shared their outrage over the treatment of the father of their friend and classmate.The mass shooter entered the freshman wing of the school. Lauren Hoggalso 14 and a freshman at the time of the shootinglost four friends to gun violence on Valentine’s Day, 2018. Jaime Guttenberg was among them.Since their murders, Hogg joined other Parkland survivors to advocate sensible gun control. She took to Twitter to express her feelings about the Kavanaugh snub of Guttenberg.Wow literal proof that our politicians could care less about protecting this nations citizens from gun violence. Brett Kavanaugh wouldnt even give @fred_guttenberg the time to shake his hand after looking him directly in the eye and then decided to turn away. https://t.co/RKjE9DlNlw Lauren Hogg (@lauren_hoggs) September 4, 2018This photo is an exact representation of how politicians treat gun violence in this country.They know it exists but choose not to acknowledge it until they are made look bad by American citizens who care. @fred_guttenberg a hero And #Kavanaugh a coward pic.twitter.com/QbRuynUOkg Lauren Hogg (@lauren_hoggs) September 4, 2018Emma Gonzalez, a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas when the shooting occurred also took to Twitter to defend Guttenberg. And comment on Brett Kavanaugh’s manners.Fred Guttenberg is one of the most wonderful people I know. Mr. Kavanaugh, 4 year olds have better manners than you. https://t.co/jUWBTn4Noa Emma Gonzlez (@Emma4Change) September 4, 2018Other alumni, like Matt Deitsch, and survivors, like Jaclyn Corin and David Hogg shared their feelings on social media as well…Look at this picture.Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter was slaughtered by a man who legally owned an AR-15, extends his hand to a man who could decide the fate of countless lives.Fred introduces himself. Kavanaugh listens, nods, snubs the handshake, walks away without a word. pic.twitter.com/BsSP1zZuXP Matt Deitsch (@MattxRed) September 4, 2018Jaime deserves better. #BlockKavanaugh https://t.co/SrUgYyFlxb Jaclyn Corin (@JaclynCorin) September 4, 2018Judges are supposed to listen and respond with moral justice.Walking away from the victims of gun violence is an injustice that our country has practiced for too long.Kavanaugh is a disgrace to this nation. https://t.co/akXC6ZIR0I David Hogg (@davidhogg111) September 4, 2018…and suggested people call their Senators to speak out about Kavanaugh’s snub. Several people also noted the National Rifle Association’s (NRA) vow to get Kavanaugh approved.Most pictures are worth a thousand words…This picture is worth thousands of lives call your senators now and tell them to not appoint Kavanaugh 202-224-3121The NRA has spent millions of dollars to appoint Kavanaugh it’s going to take 1000s of phone calls to stop this man. pic.twitter.com/R2h65VQs4k David Hogg (@davidhogg111) September 4, 2018Dont just tweet:Call your senators especially-Murkowski of Alaska at 2022246665 & -Collins of Maine at 2022242523Call them and get everyone you can to call them and say vote no on Kavanaugh David Hogg (@davidhogg111) September 4, 2018Other activists joined the Parkland survivors in solidarity.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is reeling over the release of Bob Woodward’s new book,Fear: Trump in the White House, as evidenced in an interview he gave with the Daily Caller on Tuesday.The book, which is scheduled for release on September 11, reveals turmoil and drama inside the West Wing as told by current and former administration officials.In Oval Office interview with @esaagar and @TheDCVince, President Trump responds to Woodward book, saying Watergate reporter "has a lot of credibility problems." https://t.co/nKketCF7ib via @dailycaller— Chuck Ross (@ChuckRossDC) September 4, 2018“Its just another bad book,” Trump said of Fear.Trump added that Woodward, whose investigative reporting prowess was established during Watergate, “has had a lot of credibility problems.”Trump suggested that Woodward was out to get him and only wanted to make him look bad.“Iprobably would have preferred to speak to him, but maybe not,” Trump lamented. “I think it probably wouldnt have made a difference in the book. He wanted to write the book a certain way.”Trump then referred to the book as “nasty stuff.”Its just nasty stuff. I never spoke to him. Maybe I wasnt given messages that he called. I probably would have spoken to him if hed called, if hed gotten through. For some reason I didnt get messages on it.Trump also doubted the book’s veracity, saying that many of the claims could have come from “disgruntled employees or just made up.”“It could be just made up by the author,” the president said.The WashingtonPost released excerpts ofFear on Tuesday, several of which were particularly bothersome to Trump.“Thats false,” Trump said of accounts of former National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn removing documents from his desk.“Its just made up he griped. “There was nobody taking anything from me.”Notably, Ari Fleischer who had served as press secretary to George W. Bush, came to Woodward’s defense:I've been on the receiving end of a Bob Woodward book. There were quotes in it I didn't like. But never once – never – did I think Woodward made it up. Anonymous sources have looser lips and may take liberties. But Woodward always plays is straight. Someone told it to him.— Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) September 4, 2018Which Woodward himself noted:From @AriFleischer, the Republican former White House Press Secretary for President George W. Bush: https://t.co/07Tfx6v5rJ— Bob Woodward (@realBobWoodward) September 4, 2018Others were notbuying Trump’s attacks on Woodward.	Liberal
Washington Postassociate editorBob Woodward’s explosive new bookFear: Trump in the White Housedoesn’t hit shelves for another week, but its impact is already reverberating through Washington and across the country.Using official documents and hundreds of hours of interviews with current and former White House staffers as a basis,Fearportrays President Donald Trump as woefully unstable, with his own administration often forced to quietly rebel against him for the sake of their own reputations and for the United States itself.Among the many revelations in the book is that the president’s own chief of staff, General John Kelly, described the president as an “idiot” to his colleagues, reportedly lamenting:“Hes an idiot. Its pointless to try to convince him of anything. Hes gone off the rails. Were in Crazytown. I dont even know why any of us are here. This is the worst job Ive ever had.”While these sentiments are familiar to Americans across the nation, that they would be shared by the president’s own chief of staff proved shocking to many.Kelly later denied the claims:“The idea I ever called the President an idiot is not true. As I stated back in May and still firmly stand behind: ‘I spend more time with the President than anyone else, and we have an incredibly candid and strong relationship. He always knows where I stand, and he and I both know this story is total BS.'”As General Kelly points out, this isn’t the first time he’s had to fend off claims that he called the president an idiot. NBC News made a similar claim in April, citing multiple White House staffers, to which Kelly responded similarly.https://twitter.com/maralagofucku/status/1037055439580680192That's because he called him a "f*cking idiot"… Which is more accurate anyway.— Str8OuttaSKAtland (@titty_tornado) September 4, 2018Many said they don’t trust the general after he was caught lying about Congresswoman Frederica Wilson last year.Isnt he the guy who lied about Frederica Wilson?— Jake Walker (@jakewalker) September 4, 2018Hmmm Woodward or the racist guy who lied on Fredericka Wilson? I'll go with the guy who helped take down Nixon.— Lisa Morgan (@LisanArkansas) September 4, 2018And Woodward reportedly has tapes.Yep. Woodward has tapes. Lots of them. And lots of people talked. https://t.co/Wp1L33IKVF— Jonathan Swan (@jonathanvswan) September 4, 2018How long before Woodward produces the receipts?— Katrina Hagen (@KatrinaHagen2) September 4, 2018Lordy, there are tapes:  https://t.co/4vJJMPVafI— Richard Madan (@RichardMadan) September 4, 2018Even Donald Trump himself credited Woodward’s reliability, saying on the phone call with Woodward that was recorded (with Trump’s permission) last month, “You know Im very open to you. I think youve always been fair.” Trump has also repeatedly cited Woodward and praised his credibility on Twitter:Only the Obama WH can get away with attacking Bob Woodward.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 1, 2013Must read column by Bob Woodward explaining how Obama pushed for sequestration & promised no tax increase http://t.co/JIqUIuQE09— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2013Sean's interview with Bob Woodward on @hannityshow was very interesting–Woodward was great. http://t.co/XfqXZyBh— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 28, 2012  What’s more, Bob Woodward, who, with Carl Bernstein was famously instrumental in uncovering the Watergate scandal, is widely regarded as a paragon of journalistic integrity.	Liberal
President Donald Trump holds deep contempt for Attorney General Jeff Sessions, according to Bob Woodward’s new bookFear: Trump in the White House. In his book, Woodward writes that Trump referred to Sessions as a “traitor” and “dumb Southerner.”Excerpts ofFear were published by the Washington Post on Tuesday.Trump called Sessions "mentally retarded": Woodward book https://t.co/81OGNYfDkC pic.twitter.com/9B9pQTesr4— The Hill (@thehill) September 4, 2018Woodward writes that while speaking to then-staff secretary Rob Porter, Trump said Sessions was a “traitor” for recusing himself from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation.Trump reportedly mocked Sessions’ accent, calling him “mentally retarded.” The president added:Hes this dumb Southerner.  He couldnt even be a one-person country lawyer down in Alabama.Trump’s treatment of Sessions is an affront to his conservative base, a voting bloc that dominates the South and helped propel Trump to victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016. Trump swept the former Confederacy – including Sessions’ home state of Alabama and its neighbors Mississippi and electoral-rich Florida – in large part because of southern white voter turnout.Folks, as a Southern, I think Trump calling Sessions a dumb Southerner may be the most damning detail of this Woodward book. Fellow southerners, this man doesnt care one iota about you. Hes USING you! Trump is an electoral carpetbagger. Youve been PLAYED!!! https://t.co/awK05xt3Bs— Charles M. Blow (@CharlesMBlow) September 4, 2018Sessions has drawn the ire of Trump as Mueller’s team of prosecutors close in on the president. Most recently on Monday, Trump berated Sessions on Twitter for pursuing criminal charges against two Republican Congressman who supported his presidential run.Two long running, Obama era, investigations of  two very popular Republican Congressmen were brought to a well publicized charge, just ahead of the Mid-Terms, by the Jeff Sessions Justice Department. Two easy wins now in doubt because there is not enough time. Good job Jeff……— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 3, 2018….The Democrats, none of whom voted for Jeff Sessions, must love him now. Same thing with Lyin James Comey. The Dems all hated him, wanted him out, thought he was disgusting – UNTIL I FIRED HIM! Immediately he became a wonderful man, a saint like figure in fact. Really sick!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 3, 2018“I took control of the Department of Justice the day I was sworn in,” Sessions later responded in a statement. “While I am attorney general, the actions of the Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations.”Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) has described Trump’s relationship with Sessions as “beyond repair.”Retiring Tennessee Republican Senator Bob Corker responded by saying Trump’s treatment of Sessions is “unbecoming of a 71 or 72-year-old president.”Bob Corker to me about Trump's demeaning comments on Sessions in Woodward book: If the president doesnt like his service, he can look him in the eye and terminate him. Whining is pretty unbecoming of a 13-year-old. But its very unbecoming of a 71 or 72 year old president."— Manu Raju (@mkraju) September 4, 2018Corker on Trump's criticism that DOJ is prosecuting Rs: "Left to his own accord, our country would look somewhat like Venezuela..Hes remarkable in his lack of appreciation for democratic values and institutions. And I think thats where some of the greatest damage is being done"— Manu Raju (@mkraju) September 4, 2018Corker wasn’t alone.Republicans not happy with Trump reportedly calling Sessions a "dumb southerner" and "mentally retarded.""I resent that," Isakson of Georgia told me."Totally inappropriate," Ron Johnson said— Manu Raju (@mkraju) September 4, 2018Social media users threw Trump’s words back into his face.So much winning— Slarty Bartfast (@SlartyB52704546) September 4, 2018Projection.— j.Marie (@ecinaj_m) September 4, 2018I think he may be on dodgy ground there— Paul (@Paul42980402) September 4, 2018Well aint that sweet.— Lee Watson (@Woodybiscuit) September 4, 2018Projecting, as usual.— natalie singer (@nataliesinger) September 4, 2018Projecting much?— AMBSINY (@AMBSINY) September 4, 2018https://twitter.com/Dancingdaria/status/1037033604373569536Trump hires only the best.— Timothy Kenison  #ProtectMueller (@TimothyKenison) September 4, 2018Others within the president’s inner orbit were also subject to his insults, Woodward claims.	Liberal
President Donald Trump maintained for months he wanted to speak to Special Counsel Robert Mueller. To that end, his personal legal team worked on negotiating terms agreeable to themselves for an interview between the President and the Special Counsel.But did Trump really want to speak to Mueller as he so often claimed?According to a new book from investigative journalist Bob Woodward, the answer is “maybe, but not really.” In Fear: Trump in the White House, Woodward shares the results of “hundreds of hours of interviews with firsthand participants and witnesses.”“Fear: Trump in the White House” is available for pre-order and will be out September 11 in hardback, ebook and as an audiobook. More info here: https://t.co/IPLVrFiheR pic.twitter.com/ODdqlzkrrf Bob Woodward (@realBobWoodward) September 4, 2018One area addressed in Fear involved preparations with the President and his then legal team for a potential open interviewwithout restrictionsbetween the Mueller investigation and Trump. According to Woodward, Trump’s lead lawyer John Dowd set up a practice session with the President on January 27, 2018.In the comfort of the White House residence, Dowd battered the President with questions regarding details of the Russia investigation. It did not go well.Political punditsboth critics and supporters of the Presidentposited Trump speaking to Mueller was ill-advised. According to witnesses of the Dowd practice session in January, it went as poorly as expected.The rehearsal questions resulted in “stumbles, contradictions and lies” until Trump’s temper boiled over. The resulting 30 minute rant ended with the President finally agreeing that sitting down with Mueller for an interview would end badly for him.The hhalf-houroutburst began when Trump stated:“This things a goddamn hoax.”…and ended when the President acknowledged:“I dont really want to testify.”In a mock Mueller interview, John Dowd asked tough questions, leading trump to eventually snap back.This things a goddamn hoax, Trump erupted at the start of a 30-minute rant that finished with…I dont really want to testify.#FaceMuellerLikeAMan https://t.co/dRLgk14Tt5 Angelux (@Angelux1111) September 4, 2018However, the President notoriously puts great emphasis on public perception. He worried how a President refusing to testify would look. Which led to thereal bombshell about January’s practice session.According to Woodward’s account, during a March 5 meeting with the Special Counsel, Dowd and another Trump legal team memberJay Sekulowpushed to have Trump’s name removed from Mueller’s interview list permanently.They cited national interests and Trump’s inherent nature. Dowd and Sekulow reenacted the mock interview, then Dowd reportedly told Mueller and his deputyJames Quarles:“Im not going to sit there and let him look like an idiot. And you publish that transcript, because everything leaks in Washington, and the guys overseas are going to say, ‘I told you he was an idiot. I told you he was a goddamn dumbbell. What are we dealing with this idiot for?’.”Dowd also argued Trump’s natural tendency to lie made him an unreliable witness. In reference to answers the President gave during his practice interview, Dowd stated:“He just made something up. That’s his nature.”	Liberal
The father of a student who was murdered during the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, is making waves after he recounted what it was like to meet Brett Kavanaugh, who is President Donald Trump’s nomination to the Supreme Court, at the latter’s Supreme Court confirmation hearing.Guttenberg, whose daughter, Jamie, died in the shooting on February 14, said he attempted to introduce himself to Kavanaugh after this morning’s Senate session ended, but was rebuffed.“He pulled his hand back, turned his back to me and walked away,” Guttenberg said.Just walked up to Judge Kavanaugh as morning session ended.  Put out my hand to introduce myself as Jaime Guttenberg's dad.  He pulled his hand back, turned his back to me and walked away.  I guess he did not want to deal with the reality of gun violence.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 4, 2018White House spokesman Raj Shah tweeted in response to Guttenberg, saying “an unidentified individual approached” Kavanaugh, and that “Before the judge was able to shake his hand, security had intervened.”As Judge Kavanaugh left for his lunch break, an unidentified individual approached him. Before the Judge was able to shake his hand, security had intervened. https://t.co/ylOhtA1s6G— Raj Shah (@RajShah45) September 4, 2018Guttenberg refuted the White House’s version of events.Incorrect.  I was here all day and introduced by Senator Feinstein.  No security involved. He turned and walked away.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) September 4, 2018Andrew Harnick, a photographer withThe Associated Press, captured the moment Kavanaugh turned away.Fred Guttenberg, the father of Jamie Guttenberg who was killed in the shooting in Parkland, Fla., left, tries to shake hands with @realDonaldTrump's Supreme Court nom., Brett Kavanaugh, right, during a lunch break. Kavanaugh did not shake his hand. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) @ap pic.twitter.com/smcCGuLT6X— Andrew Harnik (@andyharnik) September 4, 2018And there’s also a video of the encounter, courtesy of C-SPAN.Trumps team will try to brush Kavanaughs diss of a Parkland Dad  aside by saying security intervened. But heres the video, and it offers an even more damning glance into the soul of a man very comfortable ignoring us commoners. pic.twitter.com/E2xqeK2sIz— Rob Bennett (@rob_bennett) September 4, 2018Kavanaugh was subjected to criticism almost immediately, with some positing that acknowledging Guttenberg would have opened Kavanaugh up to backlash from his Republican supporters.This is the purest reflection of Brett Kavanaugh's soul: he simply doesn't have the guts to even acknowledge that his judicial philosophy deeply impacts the lives of actual people.He's a coward.— P Resists (@4everNeverTrump) September 4, 2018Its another sign of a weak nominee. Hes more concerned with how the humane act of a handshake will appear to his #KremliNRA supporters than the human being and the human dignity behind the small gesture. Think how easily hell be pushed around on the court.— Chris Cal Carnahan (@xtrixcyclex) September 4, 2018Fred, I have a 14 year old daughter. This hits home.It seems politics Trumps motherhood, fatherhood, the Constitution, ethics, a handshake, and human decency with this president & his crew. Im over these kind of nimrods running our nation. I want humanity back.— K. Rothschild (@AmericanRothie) September 4, 2018Wow…when a human being extends a hand, I want those with an obligation to serve to always be humble enough to take it.  Just wow. #Shame #SCOTUS #NotKavanaugh — Sarah McK (@miss_sarahmck) September 4, 2018Harnick’s image has also drawn praise.Look at the glare Kavanaugh gives Fred Guttenberg.  Where's that warm and fuzzy Catholic, car-pooling coach that the GOP is trying to sell?— Ann Spadafora (@ALJWS) September 4, 2018What a telling image. Reminder of the power of great photojournalism.— eileen chengyin chow (@chowleen) September 4, 2018Everywhere.  This must be shown on every media outlet.  This is what will represent justice and the law of the land?  A very small man indeed #KavanaughConfirmation— Stephanie Elliott (@selliottbiology) September 4, 2018Heartless. One day when we have common sense gun legislation as part of the law of the land, this photo will need to be entered into he national archives. Shame on the judge. This says more than reviewing 1,000,000 documents could ever hope to spell in 8 pt font. Disgusting.— Andy Dunscombe   (@AEDunscombe) September 4, 2018Kavanaugh’s views on gun control have come under scrutiny, particularly fromSenator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), who is the ranking member of the committee.“I’d like to address the president’s promise to appoint a nominee blessed by the NRA,” she said, quoting the president’s own words.“InDistrict of Columbia v. Heller, you wrote that ‘unless guns were regulated either at the time of the Constitution was written or traditionally throughout history, they cannot be regulated now,” Feinstein said in her opening remarks, adding:In your own words, gun laws are unconstitutional, unless they are quote ‘traditional or common in the United States.’ You concluded that banning assault weapons is unconstitutional because they have not historically been banned. And this logic means that even as weapons become more advanced and more dangerous, they cannot be regulated … If the Supreme Court were to adopt your reasoning, I fear the number of victims would continue to grow and citizens would be rendered powerless in enacting gun laws.	Liberal
In a Texas senate race that’s becoming increasingly competitive, words matter. But Republican incumbent Ted Cruz’s campaign may not be focusing on the right words in a new attack ad against Cruz’s Democratic opponent Beto O’Rourke.The Cruz campaign chose to focus on O’Rourke’s use of swear words–particularly the “F bomb”–in an ad posted to Twitter.A lighthearted reminder: A #LaborDay picnic is a great place to bring the kids. A Beto ORourke rally? Not so much… #TXSen— Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) September 3, 2018The video shows O’Rourke getting passionate while speaking at what appear to be campaign events, using phrases like “How f*cked up is that?”, “This is f*cked up,” and “What the f*ck are these guys doing?”But the consensus on Twitter seems to be: “Big f*ckin’ deal.”So let me get this straight – saying a curse word is bad but liking a porn video is good old family fun?  got it, @tedcruz but those arent the Texas values I was brought up with. My family & I are voting for the only candidate fighting for Texas families & thats @BetoORourke— Janet Janssen (@janetjanssen) September 3, 2018Oh Teddy, nice try. @BetoORourke may use cuss words but he has a spine and a moral compass, two things you are lacking.— Ann Kallevig (@energy_ann) September 4, 2018 This isn’t the first time Cruz’s attempts to vilify his opponent have only ended up making O’Rourke look cooler.[BETO OROURKE]in a bandblasts cigsgood kisserloves dogs[TED CRUZ]was a mimeliked porneats boogershit himself in the balls trying to dribble https://t.co/zxQPhwsXv5— Jules Suzdaltsev (@jules_su) August 29, 2018 Beto O'Rourke was in a cool emo band, Foss, when he was in high school. The Texas GOP thinks there's something wrong with that– but keeps forgetting to mention that their candidate, Ted Cruz, was a stiff mime that no one liked pic.twitter.com/2VBAZTqzbM— Howie Klein (@downwithtyranny) August 30, 2018Beto O'Rourke:-fun & handsome dad-probably reads to his kids-could teach them to skateboard or play guitar Ted Cruz:-groveling fuckugly dipshit-forces his kids to appear in photo ops-too busy looking at porn to teach his kids his horrible Simpsons impressions pic.twitter.com/1EhtuI8bUi— larry david adventure 2 (@BELLOLOLOL) September 2, 2018I want to make fun of this so bad but the fact that the entire theme of these tweets is that Beto ORourke is edgier than Ted Cruz and thats supposed to be bad is KILLING ME. How old is the person running your social media bc no one under 40 cares if Beto has a skateboard https://t.co/JJ9CIFwS66— its prounounced rgan (@ReganMiedema) August 31, 2018But most accused Cruz of hypocrisy for accepting the endorsement of President Donald Trump.A lighthearted reminder: #BenedictDonald accused your father of being in on the Kennedy assassination and he made a mockery of your wife's appearance – and more insults, Mr-Born-In-Canada. Yet you bow to your master now out of political obsequiousness. #Pathetic— Norman Goldman (@normangoldman) September 4, 2018So you feel good bout kids going to a Trump rally?Cause crowds at Trump rallies are always SO family friendly. Damn near close to being at Chuckee Cheese, with all the cursing and the screaming and the racism & the vulgar shirts.Pearl-clutching over bad words is laughable.— Sara H.  (@HobackSara) September 4, 2018Hows your friend Mr. Adulterous Lying Traitor???  Is he bringing one of his porn actresses to your picnic? pic.twitter.com/4Z8dP0HR5X— My Vet Will Travel (@DoctorHollyDVM) September 4, 2018The president and Senator Cruz have had a bristly relationship in the past, primarily beginning with the 2016 presidential campaign, when they competed for the Republican nomination.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Monday fired off an attack on Attorney General Jeff Sessions in a tweet, complaining about recent criminal indictments of Republican members of Congress ahead of the November midterm elections.Trump accused the “Jeff Sessions Justice Department” of bringing “well-publicizedcharges” against Representatives Chris Collins (R-NY) and Duncan Hunter (R-CA), who were indicted last month on charges of insider trading and misusing campaign funds, respectively.Two long running, Obama era, investigations of  two very popular Republican Congressmen were brought to a well publicized charge, just ahead of the Mid-Terms, by the Jeff Sessions Justice Department. Two easy wins now in doubt because there is not enough time. Good job Jeff……— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 3, 2018Trump lamented that the charges filed against Collins and Hunter, both of whom were early supporters of Trump’s presidential campaign, could hurt the G.O.P.’s chances of maintaining control of Congress. Collins and Hunter both come from deep-red districts which under normal circumstances should be “easy wins” by Republicans.“Good job Jeff,” Trump jabbed at Sessions.Several prominent Republicans blasted Trump for suggesting that the rule of law should be subject to political expediency.Congressman Justin Amash (R-CO) tweeted that politics should never be placed “above the rule of law.”We must never place politics above the Rule of Law. https://t.co/E55TmA12Uk— Justin Amash (@justinamash) September 4, 2018Ben Sasse of Nebraska told Trump in a statement that the United States is not a “banana republicwith a two-tiered system of justice  one for the majority party and one for the minority party.”Full Stmt from @BenSasse responding to Trump Tweet on DOJ investigations into GOP Reps > pic.twitter.com/hgoZzNYAFO— Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) September 3, 2018“These two men have been charged with crimes because of evidence, not because of who the president was when the investigations began,” Sasse continued, acknowledging that investigations into Collins and Hunter began under President Barack Obama. “Instead of commenting on ongoing investigations and prosecutions, the job of the president of the United States is to defend the Constitution and protect the impartial administration of justice.”Arizona’s retiring Senator Jeff Flake (R) said Trump should be “committed to defending and upholding the constitution,” not using the Justice Department to “settle political scores.”This is not the conduct of a President committed to defending and upholding the constitution, but rather a President looking to use the Department of Justice to settle political scores. https://t.co/E74YmhD4dB— Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) September 3, 2018The president tweeted again roughly 15 minutes later, this time whining about the response to his firing of FBI Director James Comey last year.….The Democrats, none of whom voted for Jeff Sessions, must love him now. Same thing with Lyin James Comey. The Dems all hated him, wanted him out, thought he was disgusting – UNTIL I FIRED HIM! Immediately he became a wonderful man, a saint like figure in fact. Really sick!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 3, 2018Comey’s dismissal led to Sessions appointing Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who has been continuing Comey’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia and whether Trump obstructed justice in firing Comey. Mueller has reportedly been rummaging through Trump’s tweets to find evidence of criminal intent.On Tuesday, Fox News host Judge Andrew Napolitano warned that Trump’s Labor Day tweets could be used by Mueller to “prove corrupt intent in an obstruction of justice charge.”Uh oh – prepare for Trump freak out:  Napolitano said that such tweets could be used by Mueller to potentially prove corrupt intent in an obstruction of justice charge. https://t.co/A3XKWAPgM4— Nicolle Wallace (@NicolleDWallace) September 4, 2018Napolitano said there is “evidence of a serious crime here,” adding:There cant be two standards: One for members of Congress  Republican members of Congress  and one for others. It is the duty of the Justice Department to prosecute crimes when they find them and to bring indictments when a grand jury has decided theres enough evidence there.Napolitano said that Trump’s tweets demonstrate the president’s intent to obstruct justice.“When the president says these things  basically, I want to you use Justice Department to help the Republican Party  that is fodder for the cannon of Bob Mueller,” the judge said. pic.twitter.com/IEBK0HHJWs— Kamgirl (@Kamgirl47) September 4, 2018Twitter users also tore into Trump and his supporters for their disregard for the American systems of justice.	Liberal
Ivanka Trump, eldest daughter of President Donald Trump and White House adviser, took to Twitter Monday to celebrate Labor Day. However her choice of message garnered far more admonishment than admiration from the public.On September 3, Trump posted to her Twitter account:“Today, on #LaborDay, lets also recognize the amazing stay-at-home parents across America, who seldom receive the credit they deserve for the invaluable work that they do, as they nurture and raise the next generation of American workers! Thank you! #HappyLaborDay”Today, on #LaborDay, lets also recognize the amazing stay-at-home parents across America, who seldom receive the credit they deserve for the invaluable work that they do, as they nurture and raise the next generation of American workers! Thank you!#HappyLaborDay Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) September 3, 2018It wasn’t the first time the First Daughter’s message drew criticism for being tone deaf.Many brought up the fact that staying home with your children became a privilege most families can no longer afford.No, lets recognize the parents who want to stay at home to take care of their children but dont have enough money so they have to go to work ?? Im just saying that the moms who get to stay at home because their husbands have good jobs are very lucky. Goldenpuppies10 (@goldenpupies) September 4, 2018When federal labor and housing statistics show working a 40 hour work week at the current federal minimum wage fails tomeet average housing costs in every state in the United States, such a message from a White House official takes on a worse light. White House advisers carry an expectation of being familiar with the state of the country and citizens they ultimately work for.Very few are home get the stats they have to work to survive, lets not forget the Moms thats working 2-3 Jobs to feed their children and pay rent, on minimum wage jobs must work 2-3 ok Bye Felicia charlene green (@lady10314) September 4, 2018People cited staying home as a privilege of the wealthy, not attainable by the average US worker in 2018.No! The ‘amazing stay at home parents’ are generally extremely wealthythat’s why they can afford to stay at home. In the average family, both parents ‘have to work’ in order to pay their bills. You’ve been eating from a silver spoon your entire life-you can’t relate. #clueless P Christensen Woodard (@pastelpatti) September 3, 2018how about the single mom working 2 or more jobs just to keep her kids fed and clothed who cant afford decent childcare and Cindy Shelton (@cshel511) September 3, 2018It was nice when wages were high enough that a family could afford to have only one parent working. Now both parents have to have more than one job to make it. The GOP has given everything to the rich at the expense of the working class Les????#BoycottNRA?????? USMC #VetsResistSquadron (@midcarp) September 4, 2018If theyre staying at home, they must be wealthy- like you. I dont know a single stay at home mom or dad. My community has parents who all work two or more jobs in order to make ends meet. Our tax cuts werent like yours and your millionaire donors. Sha Sha (@francescatututu) September 3, 2018Who can afford to be a stay at home parent? You Trumps are so out of touch with reality. And there are 2 days already that celebrate this. Mothers Day and Fathers Day. David Hawkins (@hawkpapersizors) September 4, 2018Others questioned Trump’s understanding of what Labor Day is about.Labor Day is about Unions. It’s about protecting the workers. It has a history.#UNIONS lauren flick (@flicklaur) September 4, 2018At the end of the 19th century, during the rise of the labor movement’s fight for safer working conditions and employee rights, unions and other labor organizations proposed a day to honor workers. According to the official description,“Labor Day honors the American labor movement and the contributions that workers have made to the strength, prosperity, laws, and well-being of the country.”Labor Days a celebration of ORGANIZED LABOR. You know, the groups that negotiate for high enough wages to ALLOW spouses to be able to stay home. Plus weekends, holidays, health care, retirement benefits, worker safety, overtime…It doesnt honor peoples labor. Paid or not. Whitney Edwards, M.D (@UrieBay) September 4, 2018Many who responded to the Trump tweet felt the First Daughter ill suited to speak to that topic.Your father doesnt pay his bills, hires foreign workers, and mocks labor unions on Labor Day so lol okay lets talk about parenting instead Zachary Prince (@zacharyprince) September 4, 2018Who can afford to stay home? Why not remember all those working parents who work hard even as the 1% rob them blind. Working everyday while nurturing and raising fine honorable people. Meanwhile get a clue and shut up about Labor Day. Labor that thing you know NOTHING about Shoshana B (@lilyX68) September 4, 2018So those who work not one but two jobs cant nurture future generations of Workers? this tweet is probably the hardest work youve done today. Want me to list what I did as a single working parent today? melmelkaykay (@meltroutkids) September 4, 2018Raising the “next generation of American workers”?They’re just referred to as Americans. Yes, many work & we’re proud of what we’ve made in this land.Have you actually ever worked/labored yourself? Doesn’t sound like you have… Stephen Bauer-Balel (@BalelBauer) September 4, 2018Have you worked a day in your life, princess? Christi Stark (@christistark012) September 4, 2018While others brought up Ivanka Trumpthe now defunct brand nameas in the following tweets.	Liberal
Global warming continues to be a systemic issue that affects every corner of the globe. Aside from a handful of global warming deniers, the majority of the scientific community, nay humanity, agrees that global warming is a prevalent issue that is bordering on permanent devastation for the planet.Many attempts at combating global warming and conserving habitable land have been somewhat piecemeal and haphazardaside from specific plots of protected land, a conservative selection of conservation areas, and a few randomly asserted laws delineating the protection of the environment, efforts have been modest at best. Even the Paris Climate Accord, a legally binding global climate deal has been somewhat ineffectual. The deal was initially created in 2015 to reduce carbon emissions and enforce a global dedication to reduce behaviors that trigger global warming. While that initial effort is a meaningful step, a group of scientists is now proposing an even more ambitious and sweeping effort. Those scientists are proposing an agreement, similar in nature to the Paris Climate Accord, that would also apply to the private sector.Last year, those 49 scientists published a paper that was based on a book called Half Earth. That book explored the idea that in order to combat global warming and decay, that half of the earth must be set aside in various types of reserves. Among other things, the proposal from the published paper was notably ambitious.We propose a Global Deal for Nature  a companion to the Paris Climate Deal  to promote increased habitat protection and restoration, national  and ecoregion  scale conservation strategies, and the empowerment of indigenous peoples to protect their sovereign lands,  the scientists wrote.A number of empirical studies are telling us that we need to set aside about half of the terrestrial and marine realms to avoid the worst of the two great environmental catastrophes  climate change and the sixth extinction crisis  looming on the horizon, Eric Dinerstein, the lead author on the paper, added.Currently about 15% of land is currently protected, with only 8% of oceans conserved.One of the most significant barriers to global conservation is needed funding. As with any public good, biodiversity conservation suffers from a free-riding problem, in which governments have an incentive to provide less than the optimal level of funding in the hope that others will cover the costs. The current global biodiversity crisis is in large part due to the lack of international commitment and funding over the past 25 years,  said Edward Barbier, an economist with Colorado State University. It will take around $100 billion a year to protect the earths broad range of animal and plant species, and current funding fluctuates around $4-10 billion annually, Funds approximating $100 billion are hard to come by. Unlike the Paris Climate Accord, scientists are now proposing that the private sector be incorporated into fundraising for conservation efforts. Relying solely on global governments to procure the funds is causing a lag in the acclimation of necessary funding, and therefore a less substantial effort is being made in achieving conversation. Without significant strides being made to achieve 50% global conservation, progress in reducing climate changethe main focus of the Paris Climate Accordwill be ineffectual at best.Without [Half Earth] by 2050the goal of Paris accord will not be achievable. In essence, the two goals are mutually interdependent. You cant succeed in one without success in the other, said Dinerstein.	Liberal
When Chelsea Clinton heard that Steve Bannon, President Donald Trump’s former chief strategist, had been chosen to headline this year’s New Yorker film festival, she responded, while quoting writer Roxane Gay, thatThe New Yorker andThe Economist were complicit in the “normalization of bigotry.”For anyone who wonders what normalization of bigotry looks like, please look no further than Steve Bannon being invited by both @TheEconomist & @NewYorker to their respective events in #NYC a few weeks apart. https://t.co/u0TDfCYrQ1— Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) September 3, 2018Clinton’s response referenced Bannon’s beliefs, which reflect white nationalism (a label which he has rejected despite criticisms that he had legitimized such policies as a member of the White House). Shortly after Clinton responded to theBannon controversy, a Twitter user by the name “Deplorable Kristi” accused her of “bullying” Bannon.Its almost like Chelsea is bullying Bannon on Twitter. But Democrats are the party of tolerance.  https://t.co/MdWzxaGlTb— Deplorable Kristi (@KAG4Eva) September 4, 2018Clinton soon responded, telling the user that “naming prejudice isnt bullying, nor is it impolite.”Hi Kristi – naming prejudice isnt bullying, nor is it impolite. And, those of us who have not had to endure tolerance because of the color of our skin, our religion or who we love have a particular obligation to do so. Have a blessed night. https://t.co/yoh3MvEYkO— Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) September 4, 2018The response earned Clinton praise across the board.@ChelseaClinton is the friend we all needed on the playground who would always have our backs.— . (@KodiGaddis) September 4, 2018Chelsea for the high-road twitter win. Every single time.#Class #WeGoHigh— TKresist (@sixkopps) September 4, 2018Its funny/unfortunate that some are trying the teach you about bullying.. like you arent acquainted with the subject — Daphna (@daphna27) September 4, 2018Thankful that you use your voice and position to stand up for those who can not.— (((Howard Forman))) (@thehowie) September 4, 2018I bet Chelsea was painting her last nail while typing this tweet. She is the kind of poised I want to be sometime before I die. Such a gift she has for kindness.— Ironsharky (@IronSharky) September 4, 2018The announcement from David Remnick, the editor ofThe New Yorker, that Bannon would no longer headline the magazine’s upcoming festival came after an exodus of high-profile names who said they would not participate should Bannon headline the event. Like Clinton, these individualsa list which includes film director Judd Apatow and comedian Patton Oswaltsaid allowing Bannon to participate would normalize hate and bigotry.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders is known for keeping cool under pressure and always appearing calm and collected no matter how tense the White House press room gets.But even she couldn’t hide her exasperation with President Donald Trump as he gave an interview toBloomberg News in the Oval Office.The interview has been making waves for various reasons, and from the look on Sanders’s face, she may have been expecting as much.The moment came as the president refused to say whether or not he thought his recently deceased rival, Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona, would have made a better president than Barack Obama, to whom McCain lost the 2008 election.I think Sarah may be looking forward to the day she gets to testify against Trump. pic.twitter.com/69zEUnUd29— She persisted (@CaseyHinds) August 31, 2018Twitter users were quick to speculate just what was going through her head at the time.she knows he is a lunatic. She should quit while she still has a bit of sanity left.— weekender (@lovelifetodaypl) August 30, 2018Whys @PressSec so angry pic.twitter.com/uwXDetg0KU— Matt M (@MattM3502) August 31, 2018Shes a big girl and had made her own choices. She looks soooo happy though doesnt she lolTrump Says Sarah Huckabee Sanders Had 'Nervous Breakdown' Over His McCain Reaction – Newsweek https://t.co/tnw4h52zJB— Heather Brestle (@FULtiltBoogIE) August 31, 2018It’s not surprising that the McCain question, which Trump refused to answer but on which he said he had a “very strong opinion”, would irk Sanders. According to aides, she was the leading force behind the president’s attempts to walk back what many thought were disrespectful and petty reactions to the senator’s death.Trump was such an asshole over John McCain's death that even his smokey-eyed pet liar @SarahHuckabee got pissed off at him.#FridayFeeling#TheResistancehttps://t.co/2xHf3BdWvi— Grant Stern (@grantstern) August 31, 2018Sarah Sanders had pressed Trump to lower flag, with help of White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, who also reportedly encouraged US leader to sign proclamation to keep flag lowered for McCain.  Trump says she had nervous breakdown based on his reaction. https://t.co/tMZ0m1NVED— Murf (@MurfAD) August 31, 2018It’s reported that Huckabee Sanders drafted the original statement on McCain’s death that Trump refused to give, opting instead for this tweet.My deepest sympathies and respect go out to the family of Senator John McCain. Our hearts and prayers are with you!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 26, 2018It’s been reported that Sanders was “99 percent” behind the decision to lower White House flags back to half-staff after they’d been raised not 48 hours after McCain’s death.However, it hasn’t done much for Sanders’s reputation.	Liberal
President Donald Trump defended his response to the death of Senator John McCain Thursday during a four-hour interview with BloombergNews Editor in Chief John Micklethwait and reporters Jennifer Jacobs and Margaret Talev.in the Oval Office.Did Trump make a mistake and miss an opportunity to unite the country after McCain died? Ive done everything that they requested and no, I dont think I have at all, he told us https://t.co/z5WmSStapQ— Bloomberg Politics (@bpolitics) August 30, 2018Bloomberg asked the president if he had any regrets over how he handled McCain’s death.“Mr. President, as you know, of course John McCains remains are on — on — on their way back to Washington now. You had an opportunity to unite the country this week,” Bloomberg asked. Im just wondering if you felt like you screwed it up?”Trump refused to acknowledge the mere possibility he had done anything wrong.“No, I dont think I did at all. I — Ive — Ive done everything that they requested, and no, I dont think I have at all,” Trump replied. The president added that he and McCain had “very strong disagreements” and that he “disagreed with many of the things that I assume he [McCain] believed in.”Trump said that despite the differences he had with McCain, “I respect his service to the country.”After McCain passed away on Saturday, Trump bungled what would normally be routine honorary procedures following the passing of someone of McCain’s stature.In the hours after McCain’s death, Trump ordered flags to return to full staff, which drew the ire of veterans groups and sparked a massive public outcry. Trump eventually ordered the flags down to half-mast on Monday.Bloomberg also pushed Trump to opine on if McCain would have made a better president than Barack Obama.Trump declined to say if he thinks McCain would have been a better president than Obama, even as his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, stared at him. He joked she was having a nervous breakdown over his response https://t.co/5HOxMhtZ2A pic.twitter.com/DgVYwZJwaW— Bloomberg Politics (@bpolitics) August 30, 2018“I dont want to comment on it,” Trump quipped. “I have a very strong opinion on it.”Wow, proves over and over what a class act he is.— Christi Johnson (@coolestgrandma8) August 31, 2018Trump and Bloomberg bantered back and forth after Bloomberg said they “would love to know” Trump’s thoughts.TRUMP: I have a very strong…(CROSSTALK)BLOOMBERG: Thats not — thats not a terrible question, that…Asked if McCain would have been a better president, Trump declined to say, even as his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, stared at him.I dont want to comment on it, he said. I have a very strong opinion, all right.Sanders, he joked,was having a nervous breakdown— Aron Goldman (@ArgoJournal) August 30, 2018Trump shifted the conversation by boasting that White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was “having a nervous breakdown” as she watched her boss dodge the question.The look on Sanders’ face said it all.I think Sarah may be looking forward to the day she gets to testify against Trump. pic.twitter.com/69zEUnUd29— She persisted (@CaseyHinds) August 31, 2018TRUMP: I have a very strong — Sarah, shes just having a nervous breakdown.(LAUGHTER)Trump said he may share his opinion on McCain vs. Obama “someday later.”TRUMP: I have a very strong opinion on it.BLOOMBERG: But you want to — you want to keep that to yourself.TRUMP: Maybe Ill give you that answer someday later. Yes. But I have a very strong opinion on that.In a letter to the public published after his death, McCain said losing the 2008 presidential election to Obama was a “privilege.”He would have been a better Statesman, more honorable and without any doubt more intellectual President than #Trump @POTUS could every hope. Even in his death, he has proven a more honorable man.— Bobbie Pittman (@Fairdeal2000) August 31, 2018On Monday, Trump ignored reporters who asked him to comment on McCain’s passing, which he recognized on Saturday in a brief, vague tweet to the six-term Senator’s family:My deepest sympathies and respect go out to the family of Senator John McCain. Our hearts and prayers are with you!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 26, 2018McCain made it known before he died that he didn’t want Trump to attend his funeral.Social media was not the least bit surprised by Trump’s refusal to answer simple questions.	Liberal
Yesterday it was announced that President Donald Trump would be canceling planned pay increases for millions of federal employees.NEWS: President Trump says he's eliminating a pay raise for civilian federal employees slated for 2019 in order to "put our Nation on a fiscally sustainable course." pic.twitter.com/7wNAgoMdKX— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) August 30, 2018The reason he stated:“To put our nation on a fiscally sustainable course.”But now it appears that even as he was signing this order, he was touting a policy change he’s considering that would primarily benefit the wealthiest one percent in the United States.In an interview withBloomberg, the president confirmed that he’s weighing the possibility of indexing capital gains taxes according to inflation. The move would result in an additional 100 billion dollars to the rich.BLOOMBERG: Do you favor the idea of indexing capital gains?TRUMP: Im thinking about it. Im thinking about it…Im thinking about it very strongly.Im also thinking about going, as you know, to a — to a half-time instead of a quarter-time for reporting and guidance.BLOOMBERG: Yeah, any closer on that, on making a decision?TRUMP: Ive asked Jay Clayton to look at it very strongly. Hes looking at it. I like the concept, but Ill — Ill be relying — the only one that will be fighting us on that will be the accountants.Assets typically gain value over time, therefore many make the case that taxing investment gains without adjusting for inflation cheats investors out of a growth in value that isn’t profit or value based, but simply inevitable growth due to inflation.The policy would exacerbate the already rampant wealth inequality in the United States.Here, tax economist Len Burman explains why indexing capital gains would worsen inequality (since millionaires pay 77% of cap gains taxes), would add to budget deficits, and open up new tax shelters for the wealthy.  2/https://t.co/JHS3ROyIq9 pic.twitter.com/F7xAMJDEoa— Seth Hanlon (@SethHanlon) August 30, 2018My colleagues @schwartzandrewp and @GgrHendricks here provide an overview of why indexing cap gains will rig the economy against workers, showing how cap gains indexing is even more skewed to the wealthy than the Trump-GOP tax law (TCJA).  3/https://t.co/4Ia3RP8UpY pic.twitter.com/4MeQoQiXeg— Seth Hanlon (@SethHanlon) August 30, 2018Many Americans are saying that the move only benefits the rich and does nothing to boost the economy.Dynamic scoring by the Penn Wharton Budget Model dynamically finds zero economic boost from indexing capital gains to inflation, which Trump admin is considering: https://t.co/CHQpFBgLqY pic.twitter.com/6mwqNaqpbv— Jim Tankersley (@jimtankersley) August 21, 2018No one can claim that Trump is not a Master of Timing. This is positively 3rd dimensional chess type brilliance. Try & follow, I know it's hard.1. Announce no pay raises for regular gov't employees.2. Note huge fortunes being gained by 1%.3. Float more tax cuts for 1%Genius!— Terry Hannan (@terryhannan) August 30, 2018When a massive tax cut for the rich just isn't enough!Trump says he's considering reducing capital gains taxes https://t.co/pXVDEvGj4c— Jack Christensen (@JackHokie) August 31, 2018Trump says that he’s considering making the move through executive order, however, it doesn’t seem like he actually has the ability to do that.	Liberal
ABC News and Washington Post released a new poll on Friday that capped a bad week for President Donald Trump with some even worse news: his approval rating has dropped to 36%, down from 40% in April and matching his all time low recorded by the poll.And perhaps even more troubling for the embattled president is that his disapproval has risen to 60%, a new record for the president.Disapproval of Pres. Trump is at a new high, support for the Mueller probe is broad, and half of Americans favor Congress initiating impeachment proceedings against the president, new @ABC News/WaPo poll finds. https://t.co/qALzkmTXgx pic.twitter.com/DgZiCkrqai— ABC News (@ABC) August 31, 2018According to ABC News:Trumps average approval rating since taking office is the lowest for any president in modern polling since the 1940s.Other bitsof bad news for Trump found in this poll include:New ABC/WaPo poll:-60% disapprove of Trump, 36% approve-45% say corruption in Washington has increased since Trump took office, 13% say decreased-63% support Mueller probe-53% say Trump obstructed justice-64% say Trump should not fire Sessions-66% oppose Manafort pardon— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) August 31, 201849% in new @ABC News/WaPo poll support Congress initiating impeachment proceedings against Pres. Trump. https://t.co/DQNtcmEklc pic.twitter.com/DpTFSzkJG3— ABC News (@ABC) August 31, 2018The poll surveyed 1,003 adults from August 26-August 29, which was in the wake of the news that Trump’s former campaign chairman had been found guilty on 8 counts of tax fraud and that his former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, had pled guilty to campaign finance violations and implicated Trump as an unnamed co-conspirator.Some on Twitter cheered the news.Finally the polls are starting to reflect reality! For you buzzards in Congress this is getting ready to turn badly for you. Weve been watching you do nothing about this reign of trumps terror over our country. Youll be remembered forever for this. You will not be forgiven.— Christine (@Christi74334916) August 31, 2018Hooray— Kathleen Knights (@kathknights) August 31, 2018But some wondered why his disapproval isn’t even higher:I still don't understand why it isn't 90%+— Rick  Stable Genius  Lutz (@rickathy227) August 31, 2018https://twitter.com/gulensafraud/status/1035515759735320577	Liberal
The first round of general election polling is out in the race for Florida governor and it spells bad news for Congressman Ron DeSantis, the Republican candidate endorsed by President Donald Trump.First post-primary poll of Florida, by PPP, has Andrew Gillum up 5% in Governor's race–surely one of year's elections with biggest contrast. (Nelson leads by 1% in the same sample and Trump's approval is at 46%.) https://t.co/9gEjZQmtDZ— Taniel (@Taniel) August 30, 2018Florida Democratic consultant Christian Ulvert commissioned the survey from left-leaning Public Policy Polling, which is the first since DeSantis and Democrat Andrew Gillum secured their respective party’s nominations on Tuesday. Gillum is finishing his tenure as mayor of Tallahassee, Florida’s capital.NEW POLL:  Gillum leads DeSantis by 5 points after historic upset victory in Florida Dem primary https://t.co/BBqgy6uTpL pic.twitter.com/kfRrTqtfqv— The Hill (@thehill) August 30, 2018Conducted from August 29-30, the poll found that 48 percent of 743 voters surveyed preferred Gillum for governor, while 43 percent of voters said they support DeSantis.Among independents, a voting bloc which is key to victory in Florida, Gillum holds a 34-point edge over DeSantis.Maybe the most telling stat in the article:  Among independents  a massive voting bloc in the state  Gillum leads DeSantis by 34 points, the poll found.— LiarinChief (@TrumpDaGrifter) August 30, 2018Gillum also scored higher favorability ratings than DeSantis: 45 percent to 41 percent, respectively.People are excited over the prospect of Florida electing its first black governor. The last Democrat to occupy the office was Buddy McKay in the late 1990’s.https://twitter.com/anahenke/status/1035260767824568320COME ON #Florida! YOU CAN DO IT! — Bright  Mind Veteran  (@BrightM1nd) August 30, 2018Ignore polls, keep up the surge for Gillum! It's never enough until it's over!— David C III  (@DaveLeeC3) August 30, 2018The importance of voting cannot be overstated no matter what polls say.Florida voters. Remember 2016 and vote. @lyft is giving away free rides to voters on election day. Vote. Vote. Minority voters that are being jerrymandered out of your coices VOTE.   Realize the opposite of progressive isn't conservative. It's regressive.— Brie Stoll (@briemail) August 30, 2018Dont believe it. Dont believe it. Get out the vote! Register young folks! Keep pushing!!!!— Jerri Eckmann (@360hawks) August 30, 2018Don't rest. Ignore polls. Get the young people out to vote— rubyb (@rubyb) August 30, 2018ignore these polls…vote blue!!!— Annette (@annette1010) August 30, 2018Besides the gubernatorial race, the PPP poll had other bad news for Trump.	Liberal
For a candidate who just won Florida’s Republican primary for governor, Ron DeSantis is having a rough week.Fresh off of referring to his opponent Andrew Gillum, Florida’s first black gubernatorial nominee, as “articulate” and warning Floridians not to “monkey this up” by electing him, DeSantis was discovered to be the administrator of a Facebook group called “Tea Party,” whose 94,000 members regularly share racist, conspiratorial, and otherwise hateful memes and posts. DeSantis has since left the group, but not before Media Matters employee Natalie Martinez exposed him.A writer for the Infowars-tied Central Florida Post (https://t.co/3ThaHn1hZm) has been spamming a racist, conspiracy Facebook group (https://t.co/QpFRBbWHAG) with Ron DeSantis campaign posts. DeSantis appears to be an admin of this group, along with Kelli Ward & Corey Stewart. pic.twitter.com/Sajs2g3ZnY— Natalie Martinez (@natijomartinez) August 28, 2018Another admin/moderator for the racist, conspiracy Facebook group has also been promoting Ron DeSantis' campaign, and specifically named DeSantis as an admin, and said the Central Florida Post writer Taylor Foland was specifically brought on to promote DeSantis. pic.twitter.com/tXcqDmDrAX— Natalie Martinez (@natijomartinez) August 28, 2018The gubernatorial nominee was not the only DeSantis family member in the group.His wife is still in the group… the membership and admin lists are public pic.twitter.com/tluA9e61fG— Matt (@MattSandwich) August 30, 2018As an administrator of the group, Mr. DeSantis had the power to moderate posts and ban members who frequently posted content believed to be unsuitable, which makes some of the posts all the more shocking.Some are racist. Some are homophobic.At least one spouted similar rhetoric as DeSantis’s monkey comment.And people on Twitter don’t seem too surprised.No surprise. @realDonaldTrump— paul kirk (@paulkirk7) August 28, 2018This goes without saying since hes stuck up King Cheetos ass.  Of COURSE hes a racist!!— AnonAMoose (@AnonAMoose2520) August 30, 2018 pic.twitter.com/TPI7DDHY8V— AzGolfer (@AZGolfTP) August 29, 2018Some were still outraged.HOLY SHIT!Ron Desantis, the Florida Republican candidate for governor who made the racist monkey comment about his opponent, MODERATES a racist Facebook group where members:-Attack people of color-Insult Parkland survivors-Cheered on Trumps shithole countries comment pic.twitter.com/49ReWzWKGg— jordan (@JordanUhl) August 29, 2018For those still claiming DeSantis isn't a racist…DeSantis Moderates Hate-Filled Facebook Group That Attacks African-Americans, Parkland Survivors and Muslims https://t.co/nOsAd7yZbF via @Am_Ledger— Tim Wise (@timjacobwise) August 30, 2018Ron DeSantis was an admin for a racist Tea Party Facebook group that included posts calling #BlackLivesMatter ghetto scum and  mocked Parkland massacre survivors.I sure hope Florida proves better than to elect this garbage human. #Resist https://t.co/MUC3dkZckA— Christopher Stroop (@C_Stroop) August 30, 2018But perhaps most shamefully, DeSantis wasn’t the only Republican politician moderating the group.	Liberal
Fox News host Howard Kurtz on Thursday tore into President Donald Trump’s calls for American media heads to be fired for news coverage the president doesn’t like.On Thursday morning, Trump tweeted that “Little Jeff” Zucker, the president of CNN, should be fired for the networks “hatred and extreme bias of me.”The hatred and extreme bias of me by @CNN has clouded their thinking and made them unable to function. But actually, as I have always said, this has been going on for a long time. Little Jeff Z has done a terrible job, his ratings suck, & AT&T should fire him to save credibility!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018Kurtz said Trump “has every right” to criticize the media for its coverage of him, but when the president demands that the leaders of CNN and NBC get fired, he takes the “bully pulpit” a step too far.WATCH: @JonScottFNC spoke with @HowardKurtz about President Trump calling out CNN and Watergate reporter Carl Bernstein #nine2noon pic.twitter.com/O497mcmqfB— America's Newsroom (@AmericaNewsroom) August 30, 2018“The president of the United States should not be calling for the firing of two heads of private companies simply because he disagrees with and doesnt like their media coverage of him,” Kurtz said. “Its using the bully pulpit in a way that feels like a personal grudge, especially in the case of Jeff Zucker, who had been on leave after surgery for serious heart problems.”Kurtz then called out the hypocrisy of Trump’s supporters, who would never have been okay with President Barack Obama insisting Fox News fire Roger Ailes.If President Obama had said, Hey, Fox News, you should get rid of Roger Ailes, because I think their coverage of me is unfair, it would have been an explosion on the right.’Trump’s complaints about Zucker were part of a flurry of paranoid tweets the president posted in the pre-dawn hours on Thursday morning.Twelve minutes after whining about CNN, Trump berated NBC and its chairman Andy Lack for “being the worst” regarding coverage he doesn’t like. Trump suggested Lack should lose his job for “incompetence and much worse.”Whats going on at @CNN is happening, to different degrees, at other networks – with @NBCNews being the worst. The good news is that Andy Lack(y) is about to be fired(?) for incompetence, and much worse. When Lester Holt got caught fudging my tape on Russia, they were hurt badly!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018For the record – Lester Hold did not “fudge” Trump confessing that he fired FBI Director James Comey over “this Russia thing.”Trump admitted to Lester Holt last year that he fired James Comey because of this Russia thing. He cant lie his way out of it now. Thats why he tells his supporters what you are seeing and reading is not whats happening. Hes at war with reality. https://t.co/2AOZWM3PQZ— Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) August 30, 2018Kurtz said there was “absolute not” any evidence Trump’s interview with Holt was doctored.“There’s no credible allegation that NBC or Andy Lack or Lester Holt edited that interview in a misleading way,” Lack said.Less than ten minutes after posting about Lack and Holt, Trump tweeted again, this time saying the “truth doesn’t matter” to the media and that those previously mentioned news outlets “only have their hatred & agenda.” Trump reiterated his stance that the media is the “enemy of the people.”I just cannot state strongly enough how totally dishonest much of the Media is. Truth doesnt matter to them, they only have their hatred & agenda. This includes fake books, which come out about me all the time, always anonymous sources, and are pure fiction. Enemy of the People!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018Kurtz re-enforced his critique of Trump on Twitter following his interview.I have to be consistent. If Obama had called for firing of Fox News president I would've been equally critical. https://t.co/myaYV04yRt— HowardKurtz (@HowardKurtz) August 30, 2018Podcast: Trump Wants CNN's Jeff Zucker and NBC's Andy Lack fired; rips Carl Bernstein over Trump Tower story; was he trying to buy Enquirer's secret files on him? @EmilyJashinsky https://t.co/buhixl0ti1— HowardKurtz (@HowardKurtz) August 30, 2018Many on Twitter agreed with Kurtz’s assessment.	Liberal
The phrase “sex sells” is synonymous with advertising and marketing strategy for virtually everything bought and sold. But it turns out for some merchandise, “fear sells” applies even more.Of course the marketing for self defense or personal safety products relies heavily on fear to promote consumer purchases. But a different kind of fear propels gun sales in the United States and right now gun buyers simply are not feeling sufficiently fearful.Despite conspiracy theories about a deep state shadow government and stories of potential civil wars being promoted by high ranking government officials as facts, the fear they instill in the public fails to drive gun sales.The fear that best sells guns is one based on the fear of not being able to buy a gun.But a President and Vice President closely aligned with the National Rifle Association (NRA)the largest gun rights lobbyists in the UScurrently preside over the executive branch of the government. And the recipients of the most money from the NRAthe Republican Partycontrol both houses of Congress.The sales of guns went into a “Trump slump” in 2017 because no one thinks the Trump administration or a GOP controlled Congress will ever limit gun rights. While the NRA could promote President Barack Obama or other members of his administration as coming after people’s guns, that marketing fails when replaced with the name Donald Trump or Mike Pence.And that is a problem for those behind the bulk of NRA fundinggun manufacturers and sellers. The NRA currently represents less than 5 percent of gun owners but accepts large sums for their lobbying efforts from firearms and accessories makers and dealers.As horrible as the NRA claimed Obama and Democrats were for gun rights, they were great for gun sales.Sales of the oft debated AR-15 dropped 50 percent since Trump took office. The weapon most closely associated with mass shootings saw sales surges after each such incident while Obama remained in office over fear a ban on the weapon would occur.They will never ever sell that many rifles again. So they secretly wish for a dem presidency Aint theyperfect (@allthat444) August 30, 2018Georgia based gun dealer Chris Waltz stated:“Obama was the best AR-15 salesman there was.”Or rather the fear that Obama would take the gun off the market spiked the weapons sales. The same occurred for certain types of ammunition and accessories. If Democrats talked of banning it or limiting its sales while a Democrat resided in the White House, sales soared.Fear is the arms producer’s best friend. Iain Overton (@iainoverton) August 30, 2018The Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994signed by President Bill Clintonrestricted manufacturing of various types of semiautomatic firearms and limited sales to existing older models. The ban expired in 2004 but the threat of its reinstatement helped drive sales throughout the Obama administration’s years in office.Fear of a Hillary Clinton presidency also caused firearms and accessory sales to soar in 2016 to new heights.Another indicator of the Trump slump is reductions in background checks.	Liberal
In a letter addressed to House Speaker Paul Ryan, President Donald Trump announced he is canceling a pay raise that most civilian federal employees were due to receive in January. The president cited budgetary constraints.“Under current law, locality pay increases averaging 25.70 percent, costing $25 billion, would go into effect in January 2019, in addition to a 2.01 percent across-the-board increase for the base General Schedule. We must maintain efforts to put our Nation on a fiscally sustainablecourse, and Federal agency budgets cannot sustain such increases,” the president’s letter read in part.The president added that hes determined that for 2019 both across-the-board pay increases and locality pay increases will be set at zero.NEWS: President Trump says he's eliminating a pay raise for civilian federal employees slated for 2019 in order to "put our Nation on a fiscally sustainable course." pic.twitter.com/7wNAgoMdKX— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) August 30, 2018The president’s critics say his reasons for the cancellation are disingenuous.Bloomberg reporter Sahil Kapur noted that, by contrast, the president’s tax plan, per a report from the Congressional Budget Office, is projected to cost the Treasury “an average of $190 billion each year for the next decade.”The president estimates that the 2019 federal employee pay raise he's scrapping would've cost $25 billion.For context, his tax law is projected by CBO to cost the Treasury an average of $190 billion each year for the next decade.— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) August 30, 2018Representative Eric Swalwell (D-CA) criticized the move, saying that “hard-working federal employees” do more the United States than billionaires who benefit from enormous tax cuts.To the hard-working federal employees Trump just screwed by cutting pay  the folks who run our parks, protect our communities, & serve our veterans: YOU MATTER. If billionaires can get tax cuts, you should get a COLA. You work hard for America & that should add up to something.— Rep. Eric Swalwell (@RepSwalwell) August 30, 2018Former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder also weighed in and wondered how much the president benefited from his own tax proposal.Trump decides no raises for federal employees.  What about your trillion dollar tax cut for corporations and your fat cat friends – you gave them a raise. How much did Trump get in that tax cut?                Trump cancels pay raises for federal employeeshttps://t.co/PAcjfS2OVW— Eric Holder (@EricHolder) August 30, 2018The president was also heavily criticized by progressive military advocacy organization VoteVets. In a statement, Will Fischer, an Iraq War veteran andVoteVet’s Director of Government Outreach, called the move “simply obscene.”“Our hard-working veterans sacrificed for this country, and at a time when wages are stagnantand inflation is on the horizon, it is simply cruel to cancel that so many of these veterans in the workforce were dependingon,” he said.It is simply obscene that the same person who gave away massive amounts of money to corporations and billionaires in a tax scam now is crying that we dont have enough money for pay raises for the Federal workforce – over 30 percent of which is made up of veterans. pic.twitter.com/IR5ohkbjRf— VoteVets (@votevets) August 30, 2018Jordan Uhl, the political commentator and host of the podcast “Rust Belt to Beltway,” pointed out that the decision to cancel a federal pay raise is an audacious one, particularly for a president who has taken so many vacations that the Secret Service is concerned it will run out of money.Trump is burning through millions in taxpayer dollars on personal vacations and has the audacity to suggest that federal workers dont need pay raises so we can balance the budget. pic.twitter.com/HEhsqoyeyk— jordan (@JordanUhl) August 30, 2018In May, the Trump administration proposed $143.5 billion in cuts to federal employee compensation, which included a significant decrease in retirement funding. The president also signed executive orders which made it easier to fire civilian employees and cut down on union activity. On Saturday, a federal judge invalidated many of the provisions of those executive orders.There has already been concern that Trump’s decision could imperil the re-election ofRepresentative Barbara Comstock (R-VA), whose district is home to tens of thousands of government employees. Comstock has not commented on the announcement.There was a three-year pay freezefrom 2011 through 2013 under President Barack Obama, which Congress authorized. Obama attempted to end the freeze in 2012 through an executive order but lawmakers overturned it through legislation and the president signed. Lawmakers had extended the freeze to avoid agovernment shutdown.The president has often claimed that he and his administration will reduce the federal deficit. However, his policies have proven to have the opposite effect.	Liberal
During a routine morning Twitter tirade, President Donald Trump lashed out at news organizations he said were “unable to function” due to their “hatred and extreme bias of me.”The rant primarily targeted the organization he’s long perceived to be his arch nemesis: CNN. However, he targeted NBC as well, accusing veteran reporter Lester Holt of “fudging” his tape on Russia.The hatred and extreme bias of me by @CNN has clouded their thinking and made them unable to function. But actually, as I have always said, this has been going on for a long time. Little Jeff Z has done a terrible job, his ratings suck, & AT&T should fire him to save credibility!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018Whats going on at @CNN is happening, to different degrees, at other networks – with @NBCNews being the worst. The good news is that Andy Lack(y) is about to be fired(?) for incompetence, and much worse. When Lester Holt got caught fudging my tape on Russia, they were hurt badly!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018He then continued his well-established pattern of vilifying the press, once again referring to them as an “enemy of the people.”I just cannot state strongly enough how totally dishonest much of the Media is. Truth doesnt matter to them, they only have their hatred & agenda. This includes fake books, which come out about me all the time, always anonymous sources, and are pure fiction. Enemy of the People!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018Now, Twitter users are sharing the video of Holt’s interview of Trump, in which the president said he fired former FBI director James Comey for “this Russia thing”–an action perceived by many to qualify as obstruction of justice.Trump admitted to Lester Holt last year that he fired James Comey because of this Russia thing. He cant lie his way out of it now. Thats why he tells his supporters what you are seeing and reading is not whats happening. Hes at war with reality. https://t.co/2AOZWM3PQZ— Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) August 30, 2018President Trump is lyingTrump is accusing Lester Holt of "fudging" tape of Trump's admission to firing Comey because of the Russia investigationWhy? Because it's a piece of evidence in Mueller's obstruction probeHe very clearly said itRoll the tapehttps://t.co/BZLSse5KRA— Rantt Media (@RanttMedia) August 30, 2018Lester Holt didn't "fudge" anything. Trump admits to firing Comey "regardless of recommendation" from the DOJ. Comey's refusal to intervene and end the Russia Investigation would have been the only basis he had. (Watch the extended interview here: https://t.co/mzUogGFsw1) pic.twitter.com/e5kZgILklM— Amee Vanderpool (@girlsreallyrule) August 30, 2018Trump says in the interview:“I was going to fire Comey knowing there was no good time to do it. And in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story, it’s an excuse by the democrats for having lost an election that they should have won.”Despite his statements on tape, Trump has repeatedly stated that he did not fire Comey because of his refusal to hinder the Russia investigation.Slippery James Comey, the worst FBI Director in history, was not fired because of the phony Russia investigation where, by the way, there was NO COLLUSION (except by the Dems)!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018Not that it matters but I never fired James Comey because of Russia! The Corrupt Mainstream Media loves to keep pushing that narrative, but they know it is not true!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 31, 2018The White House’s official statement following Comey’s firing in 2017 was done solely at the recommendation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. However, Trump contradicted the White House’s initial statement, insisting he’d planned to fire Comey anyway.Comey has been the target of much of Trump’s anger since he originally stated that Trump had asked him to go easy on former national security advisor Michael Flynn for lying to the FBI.	Liberal
Wednesday afternoon, President Donald Trump again focused on his Twitter campaign against Google. He posted a new claim of bias by the internet giant.In his latest Google targeting tweet, Trump posted the hashtag “#StopTheBias” along with a short blurry video stating Google failed to promote his State of the Union in 2017 and 2018 while they did promote President Barack Obama’s.Who created the video is not specified.#StopTheBias pic.twitter.com/xqz599iQZw Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018As with the President’s false claims about Google search results on Tuesday, it took little time or internet knowledge to prove the video’s claims false.First, Trump gave no State of the Union address in 2017 so there was no address to promote.Similarly, President Obama issued no State of the Union in 2009 nor did President George W. Bush issue one in 2001. President’s entering their first term in office may choose to address Congress for the first time, but only the outgoing President can give a State of the Union address in transition years.Google promotes only the State of the Union, not presidential addresses to Congress. They did not promote Obama’s 2009 first address to Congress.In 2009 Bush chose not to give a final State of the Union and in 2017, Obama made the same choice. Only Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, Johnson, Ford and Carter chose to give a final State of the Union in transition years in the modern era.Second, the blurry Trump posted video states Google failed to promote his actual first State of the Union in 2018. Except the image shown in the video is not a screenshot of Google’s homepage from January 30, 2018 as annotated on the image.People familiar with searching internet records via the Internet Archive Wayback Machineproduced the actual record. On it, you can see Google provided the same promotion for Trump’s first State of the Union as they did for Obama’s.And if you still don’t believe Google, Trumps pals at r/The_Donald grabbed a screenshot on Jan 30, 2018 https://t.co/Jol83mb4aY pic.twitter.com/pzPPeTRWW5 Jon Passantino (@passantino) August 29, 2018In addition, the Reddit pro-Trump subreddit “The_Donald” posted a screenshot from Google promoting the President’s State of the Union address during the actual speech on January 30, 2017 proving Google was promoting the speech while it occurred.The first part of Trump’s latest indictment against Google results from a lack of knowledge of the traditions of the presidency. The second partclaiming Google failed to promote his first and only State of the Union in 2018is a lie.Google issued an official statement corroborating the information other internet sleuths used to refute the false accusations in the video Trump shared.“On January 30, 2018, we highlighted the livestream of President Trumps State of the Union on the google.com homepage. We have historically not promoted the first address to Congress by a new President, which is technically not a State of the Union address. As a result, we didnt include a promotion on google.com for this address in either 2009 or 2017.”In addition to the issues related to Trump’s claims about his own speeches, another image used in the video the President shared is also faked.The screenshot features the wrong Google logo for the supposed 2016 screen capture.In 2015, Google updated their logo. The logo used for the faked 2016 screenshot includes the old Google logo.So why did the President issue false claims against Google two days in a row? Why did someone create the faked images in the video?	Liberal
President Donald Trump started his Thursday by hopping onto Twitter and boasting that the White House is operating like a “smooth running machine.” Needless to say, the president has been getting dragged for it day.“Ivanka Trump & Jared Kushner had NOTHING to do with the so-called pushing out of Don McGahn.The Fake News Media has it, purposely, so wrong!” Trump wrote. “They love to portray chaos in the White House when they know that chaos doesnt exist-just a smooth running machine with changing parts!”Ivanka Trump & Jared Kushner had NOTHING to do with the so called pushing out of Don McGahn.The Fake News Media has it, purposely,so wrong! They love to portray chaos in the White House when they know that chaos doesnt exist-just a smooth running machine with changing parts!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 30, 2018Trump fired White House Counsel Don McGahn on Wednesday morning, (via Twitter of course), fueling rumors that his daughter and other senior staffers were concerned that the firing was due to Trump’s displeasure over the Russia investigation. In January, Trump learned McGahn had fully cooperated with Special Counsel Robert Mueller.Twitter users quickly pointed out that Trump’s White House doesn’t resemble anything close to a “smooth running machine,” specifically due to its historically high turnover, non-stop leaks, and legal entanglements.Like this?"Smooth running machine".  pic.twitter.com/HktQ4CA7Df— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) August 30, 2018Trumps record: Most games of golf played Least amount of bills signed Lowest approval rating Most provable lies told Most cabinet resignations Most criminal indictments Largest deficit Most allies insulted Most Russian spy meetings— Thorsten (@Airvooocht) August 30, 2018Most lawyers flipped? Lol— shaleen (@smalcutt) August 30, 2018Just a smooth running machine with changing parts!Right! Just like a 1988 Yugo! Except they no longer make parts, so it runs about as smooth as a cement mixer.— Bruce Lindner (@LukaBrazzi) August 30, 2018Right pic.twitter.com/ymUhfDYakI— mark schade aka Spanky Dennison (@Mschade2020) August 30, 2018Nice try pic.twitter.com/jWxFRJpXrY— Grove Street (@Grove_Street2x) August 30, 2018"Smooth running machine". pic.twitter.com/pVm4juCY91— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) August 30, 2018Sure, to be fair, most smooth running machines are run by 72 year old men who watch cable news and rage tweet all day. pic.twitter.com/Xdv2SGDBna— #Resist Trumpism (@TrumpsBane) August 30, 2018we dont even need the media to report on the floundering chaos in the WH. we can just follow your panic tweeting daily.— DeepStateJBFish (@JeffBfish) August 30, 2018People are wondering if a bombshell is about to drop.There must be something big coming down soon. He's gone completely crazy the last two days.— DJMcNeer (@knitrunrepeat) August 30, 2018An indictment of Donald Trump Jr. perhaps?Trump is panic tweeting a storm today- I bet we are about to get more news that Robert Mueller is about to indict someone. I have Don Jr in my Trump fantasy crime family league- hoping it's him!— (((DeanObeidallah))) (@DeanObeidallah) August 30, 2018Yup his son is gonna be charged with lying to the fbi— Bob (@concerned999999) August 30, 2018Trump tweeted again a few hours later, saying he is “very excited about the person who will be taking the place of Don McGahn as White House Counsel!” The unhinged tweet also contained denials that McGahn stopped Trump from firing Mueller and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.	Liberal
According to aYouGov/The Economist survey, five percent of respondents who voted for President Donald Trumpsaid they would have changed their vote if the Stormy Daniels affair allegations had surfaced the week before the 2016 election.The poll specifically asked:“If the week before the 2016 Presidential election you had heard a news story in which a porn star claimed she had an affair with Donald Trump just after Melania Trump had given birth to their son, would that have changed your vote for President?”The respondents said, “Yes, I would have voted differently,” according to thesurvey.” Comparatively, 89 percent of Trump voters said they would have still voted for Trump if the allegations had come out before the election. Seven percent said they weren’t sure if their vote would have changed at all.Overall:The poll also asked respondents questions like“How important an issue do you think the allegations that Donald Trump had an affair with adult film actress Stormy Daniels are to the nation?”To that question, 16 percent of respondents said the allegations are very important, 29 percent said they are somewhat important, and 55 percent said they aren’t important at all.Had the allegations come out earlier, per this hypothetical universe, a few votes could have potentially swayed the 2016 election. Trump beat his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, by narrow margins in three key states: Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan.Final tallies show that the election came down to 77,744 across those three states. Trump won Pennsylvania by 44,292 votesor 0.7 percent. He won Wisconsin by 22,748 votes, also equivalent to 0.7 percent. And in Michigan, he won by 10,704 votes, equivalent to 0.2 percent of the vote. Had Clinton won those three statesshe would have won the Electoral College 278 to 260.Daniels was vindicated last week after Michael Cohen, President Trumps former personal attorney and fixer,pleaded guilty to eight criminal countsfive charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraudin a deal struck with federal prosecutors.The news that Cohen had implicated the president in a scheme to unlawfully silence two women, including Daniels, without whose very public efforts Cohen would likely never have been charged, sent shock waves around the world. Specifically, Cohen saidhe paid Daniels off at the direction of the . . . candidate and for the principal purpose of influencing the election.How ya like me now?! she wrote on August 22, the day after Cohen’s guilty plea.How ya like me now?! # teamstormy— Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) August 21, 2018It was the moment of vindication Daniels had been waiting for, having suffered through months of having her character impugned and her story discredited.Cohen had found himself at the center of the questions regarding a payment Daniels received from himas part of the non-disclosure agreement to keep her from discussing a sexual encounter with Trumpback in 2006,while hewas married to his current wife, Melania, and just a few months after Melania gave birth to their son, Barron.A separate lawsuit filed by Daniels contends that Cohen initiated a bogus arbitration hearing against her without notifying her beforehand, and a copy of the restraining order against Daniels confirms that the judge made a one-party ruling that did not require her to be notified.	Liberal
Even after death, Senator John McCain appears to be sticking it to President Donald Trump.Politico reported on Tuesday that McCain had planned his funeral prior to his death and that he had chosen Vladimir Kara-Murza, a Russian dissident and critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, to be one of his pallbearers.Even in death, John McCain has one final burn planned for two of his biggest foes  Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump  at a moment when much of the world will be watching https://t.co/gGvp7ppPth— POLITICO (@politico) August 28, 2018“The choice of Kara-Murza, who twice suffered organ failure from poisoning, appears aimed at sending a last message to Putin and Trump,” Politico said, “who McCain had criticized for sounding too cozy with the Russian leader, amid an investigation into whether the U.S. presidents allies cooperated with Moscows efforts to intervene in the 2016 election.”For more than seven years, @SenJohnMcCain and Vladimir Kara-Murz aka @vkaramurza had each others backs as each criticized Putin and what they saw as his autocratic tendencies in Russia.  /1 https://t.co/QHv7iomjEF— Josh Meyer (@JoshMeyerDC) August 29, 2018Kara-Murza was asked to be a pallbearer in April as McCain’s battle with glioblastoma, a form of brain cancer, continued to rage.“I was speechless and heartbroken, close to tears at that moment,” Kara-Murza told POLITICO on Tuesday. “I said yes, of course, and that it would be the most heartbreaking honor that anyone could think of.”Kara-Murza added thateven though McCain wasn’t planning on dying anytime soon, the Senator “knew how it was going to end, and he was planning everything.”Knowing @SenJohnMcCain well as he does, @vkaramurza told me, he believes he had some higher purpose in mind in selecting him as a pallbearer on Saturday than embarrassing Putin or Trump. /14— Josh Meyer (@JoshMeyerDC) August 29, 2018Social media lauded McCain’s final middle finger to Trump.John McCain gives Trump and Putin the finger on the way to his grave. I love it!— Pierre Atlas (@PierreAtlas) August 29, 2018Well played, @SenJohnMcCain .— Jennifer  James (@JenniferDJames1) August 29, 2018The most important thing is that its a message to US!— FierceMom2 (@FierceMom2) August 29, 2018Did not know that a corpse was capable of thrusting up both middle fingers, but trust John McCain to figure it out!— MmeDF (@MmeDefargeKnits) August 29, 2018Message to America: wake up.And a message to America:  Wake up to the threat posed by Putin/Russia and all those in the GOP/Republican Party who are doing Putin's bidding wittingly or unwittingly to undermine the United States and Western democracy.  #TrumpRussia— John Hitt (@John_Hitt) August 29, 2018To me it says that Americans need to unify and we also need to support other democracies and those struggling for freedom throughout the world.Theres more to love in life than hateStop the hate— Christie Johnson (@ChristieXOJxhn) August 29, 2018John McCain is showing American people what trumps legacy is all about. — rob (@robmir47) August 29, 2018One Twitter user noticed that in McCain’s farewell letter, the Senator referenced “blood and soil,” which was part of the racial purity philosophy adopted by the Nazis.	Liberal
President Donald Trump fired White House Counsel Don McGahnWednesday morning in a tweet that McGahn reportedly had no idea was coming.“White House Counsel Don McGahn will be leaving his position in the fall, shortly after the confirmation (hopefully) of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court,” Trump wrote. “I have worked with Don for a long time and truly appreciate his service!”White House Counsel Don McGahn will be leaving his position in the fall, shortly after the confirmation (hopefully) of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. I have worked with Don for a long time and truly appreciate his service!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018According to Rosalind Helderman of the Washington Post, McGahn was “surprised, though attitude was ‘of course it happened this way.'”McGahn did not know about Trump's tweet before it was sent and had not previously discussed his departure plans with POTUS, though it was open secret in the WH. He was surprised, though attitude was "of course it happened this way." https://t.co/csLnGJ4agm— Rosalind Helderman (@PostRoz) August 29, 2018Whoever takes the job next will be doing so with full knowledge that this is how it will end.— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 29, 2018McGahn’s departure comes days after it was revealed that he spent more than 30 hours providing testimony and documents to Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his investigation into Trump-Russia collusion and the president’s alleged attempts to obstruct justice.The president’s announcement was met with shock and bewilderment inside Washington political circles.Particularly from Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) who responded on Twitter in such an earnest pure way:@realDonaldTrump   I hope its not true McGahn is leaving WhiteHouse Counsel. U cant let that happen— ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley) August 29, 2018Grassley’s office followed up his tweet with a statement about McGahn.Following Trump's tweet confirming that Don McGhan will soon be leaving the White House, @ChuckGrassley tweeted: "I hope its not true McGahn is leaving WhiteHouse Counsel. U cant let that happen" Asked about the tweet, Grassley's team offered this comment  pic.twitter.com/nom3VqgLRN— Alayna Treene (@alaynatreene) August 29, 2018Senator Grassley has admired Mr. McGahn’s work over the last two years and has considered him integral to the President’s record-breaking success on filling judicial vacancies. From Senator Grassley’s perspective, there’s not been any White House Counsel who has worked so well and so efficiently with the chairman’s office and the Senate Judiciary Committee on judges.Grassley’s tweet was met with immediate mockery. Social media blasted the Iowa Republican for never having the stones to check Trump.Why? You won't do anything about it anyway.— Rick Waldron (@rwaldron) August 29, 2018he'll write a sternly worded letter…. OH THE HUMANITY!— Joe D (@din5dale56) August 29, 2018Maybe its time for a co-equal branch to step up and do the work of oversight.  If only we knew people with that kind of power. Hmm. — Katherine Robinson (@KMR31871) August 29, 2018LOL Trump is able to do whatever he wants because the GOP is fin joke.Cmon now. Youre trying to tell a criminal thats been enabled by the GOP not to do something.Hes just going to do it because you guys in the Senate and House are too scared to stand up to him.— Andrew (@DrewM987) August 29, 2018If you haven't been paying attention, Donald Trump does whatever he pleases because the GOP majority Congress decided not angering the infant-in-chief was more important than upholding their oaths to exercise oversight.— Alicia M. (@ShopgirlAlic) August 29, 2018Lol….you've repeatedly signaled to this despot that yoi won't do anything more than tweet and/or shake your head disapprovingly.Of course he's going to become more and more bold in his attempts to obstruct the investigation into Russia.— Corey "Lordy there ARE tapes" (@ccradle) August 29, 2018Others think Grassley is “panicking” because he knows McGahn has dirt on Trump – and likely others in Republican politics. Also, big points for the S.A.T. word, “quisling.” Nice.Here's what panicky QUISLING Chuck knows: https://t.co/qoJc3GMix2— Grace Tiscareno-Sato (@GraceTiscareno) August 29, 2018"U can't let this happen" like it's not Trump pushing him out. Grassley is just scared as hell because once he leaves Trump can not use executive privilege over him. Chuckie knows this will be a disaster.—  Is Not Futile (@SIippery_Slope) August 29, 2018So you know McGahn will be a star witness to obstruction of justice & your complicity.    That's what's so great! pic.twitter.com/HgRbIHAFoH— Chief's Wife (@sharondigi) August 29, 2018https://twitter.com/firedup79/status/1034825201039667202George Conway, the husband of White House senior advisor Kellyanne Conway, suggested Grassley “remember the Eighth Amendment.”remember the eighth amendment, senator— George Conway (@gtconway3d) August 29, 2018On Monday, reports indicated that Trump was at odds with McGahn over the prospect of pardoning Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign chair who was convicted of eight felonies earlier this month. McGahn, it was said, staunchly opposed the idea.Its not that Trump is letting that happen, dipshidiot.  He making it happen because McGahn wont sign off on a pardon for Manafort because it would be a sign of guilt by Trump.  Its corruption.— Tio Santiago (@TioSantiagoG) August 29, 2018@ChuckGrassley we all know this is part of trump's plan to pardon Paul Manafort who is clearly guilty of numerous felonies. Do the right thing, @ChuckGrassley! We remember the town hall where you said you'd release the documents. What's holding you back?— jamiesrice (@jamiesrice) August 29, 2018He likely fired him because he spoke with Mueller for 30+ hours and won't legitimate his desire to fire Sessions — but hey maybe do your job of oversight of this administration and his lawlessness might be a good use of your time!— Leanne O (@TImshel_Hope) August 29, 2018Brett Kavanaugh, Trump’s pick to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy on the Supreme Court, is set to begin his confirmation hearings before the U.S. Senate on September 4th, but Democrats are pushing to delay those hearings, in part because of a lack of transparency when it comes to Kavanaugh’s records from when he worked in the White House.And Grassley, as Chairman of Judiciary, has been key to that lack of transparency. People called Grassley out for this as well.	Liberal
Donald Trump Jr. and fellow conservative,actor James Woods, lashed out at comedian and activist Chelsea Handler with childish, sexist tweets Tuesday night.Handler, a vocal critic of the Trump administration, tweeted that she couldn’t wait for Don Jr. to flip on his father–referring to the investigation of possible conspiracy with Russia during the 2016 campaign.I cant wait for Donald Trump junior to flip on his father. Thats going to be awesome.— Chelsea Handler (@chelseahandler) August 27, 2018To which Don Jr. replied:Id say stick to comedy but you werent funny enough to avoid cancellation of your Netflix show. Stay away from politics  no reason to suck at two things. https://t.co/TWaIdU0d71— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) August 28, 2018Fact is, Handler’s Netflix show wasn’t canceled, she chose to leave it to pursue activism in protest of the current administration.That didn’t stop James Woods, who has been known to be an avid Trump booster, from adding kerosene to what was already kind of a dumpster fire.Think its safe to say she has sucked at way more than two things… https://t.co/aK4n1l0Yw7— James Woods (@RealJamesWoods) August 28, 2018And Don Jr., possibly taking a page from his father’s book, agreed.Solid point… https://t.co/eo6sHPtGW0— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) August 29, 2018While Handler didn’t honor the idiotic comments with a response, swathes of people jumped to her defense, including comedian Kathy Griffin and activist Dan Savage.Wow look at these tweets in order. What sick fucks. They cant deal with @chelseahandlers tweet so they go to the lowest depths. Not surprised. pic.twitter.com/PKwSHuFhGp— Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) August 29, 2018Straight guys also complain about how much easier it is for gay guys to get our cocks sucked. Heres the secret to our success, straight guys: we dont mock and shame guys who suck cockunless it turns a particular guy on.— Dan Savage (@fakedansavage) August 29, 2018Hey @IvankaTrump – know you're a champion for women and wanted to make sure you saw this solid sexist #BeBesting https://t.co/TxoC8q2zSx— Emily Brandwin (@CIAspygirl) August 29, 2018Youre a puerile POS.— Jamie S. (@Twinmom0) August 29, 2018Some pointed out the hypocrisy.We dont even have to think about it because we know the real President and First Lady would never have kids who would this. pic.twitter.com/UAKWY4S9b7— andrea Kline (@andreathekline) August 29, 2018And other users weren’t afraid to bring out the snark.Another example of your rapier wit. Years of acting, pouring through scripts, learning how to craft dialogue. All culminating in not a single but a double entendre.Sure, my kids reached this height of witty banter at 7 but they're gifted. Good job James!— BadHombreTruth (@Tim_Chauncey) August 28, 2018Handler has been a favorite target of Republicans since the Trump era inspired the comedian to heighten her activism. Her characteristic irreverence has made her a formidable rival when it comes to sparring with words.She’s frequently remarked on efforts to combat misogyny:“Use your voice. Be vocal. Women fought for us for years, and years, and years, so that we would have the rights that we do. Not using your voice is an assault on them and what they did for us. The results of this election is a result of what happens when you don’t show up and when you don’t use your voice. If you’re happy with the way things are, then great, but I can’t imagine that anyone who’s bringing a child into this world would be happy with this situation.”Handler recently announced that she’s working on a new Netflix series addressing white privilege. Meanwhile, James Woods is becoming more famous for his Twitter than his acting work.	Liberal
The state of Texas sent a Republican to the United States Senate in every election since 1993 when their last Democratic Senator, Lloyd Bentsen, ended his tenure. But the 2018 midterms may produce a different result as Democratic challenger, Representative Beto O’Rourke, closes the gap on Republican incumbent Ted Cruz.The latest polls show the two men within a few percentage points of each other. In response to the polls, the Texas GOP strategy of attack ads added a social media twist when they tried to discredit O’Rourke as a viable candidate because of his past.On Tuesday, in an effort to bolster Ted Cruz’s image, the Texas Republican Party posted an altered image of Beto O’Rourke’s mugshot from 1998. They altered the photo to add “Sorry. Can’t debate. Had a little too much to drink.”The results however look to have backfired.“Let’s post the viciously sexy headshot from our opponent’s lowest point, which he has addressed and apologized for, while our guy looks like Grimace and hasn’t explained why he’s fallen in line behind the guy who called his wife ugly and his dad a murderer.” U R KILLIN THE GAME! https://t.co/s7T4iQkPMD Dave Holmes (@DaveHolmes) August 29, 2018He looks cool imo strategy consultant (@neoliberal_dad) August 29, 2018Id have partied with him in college, just saying. Feckful Patricia (@patriciaturner) August 29, 2018Meanwhile O’Rourke released a campaign ad highlighting his drive around Texas to hold town hall meetings in all 254 counties. In it he speaks of working together regardless of politics and fails to bash Cruz even once.Just launched our first ad. Entitled “Showing Up,” it’s filmed using an iPhone and was created entirely with live stream footage from our travels to all 254 counties of Texas. Watch and RT to share. pic.twitter.com/INmmjlXX4Y Beto O’Rourke (@BetoORourke) July 26, 2018Responses to the post by the Texas GOP heavily favored O’Rourke. The post garnered only 442 likes by Wednesday afternoon, but over 1,100 comments.Unlike Texas GOP which received a lot of negative feedback for their overall social media approach, O’Rourke’s supporters had a video of their candidate go viral for all the right reasons.Some Republicans expressed disgust at the tactic employed by their own party.As a Republican I find this rhetoric and campaign tactic disgusting. We, as a party, are supposed to be BETTER. Better than ad hominem attacks. Attack the ideas and the policies. Take the high road, show constituents what we STAND for, dont sink to their level. #GOP #txlege FAB (@flexxiss) August 29, 2018This is a cheap shot that diminishes the integrity of your organization. You should delete it. Judging people on their looks is bullying. Mike Magolnick (@magolnick) August 29, 2018And I am a lifelong republican by the way and a donor to the GOP organizations. Mike Magolnick (@magolnick) August 29, 2018O’Rourke disclosed his arrests when he ran for the U.S. House of Representatives in 2012. His Republican opponent at the time, Silvestre Reyes, also tried to discredit the Democrat with ads highlighting his two arrests.Others responding to the Texas GOP post brought up past criminal behavior by members of the GOP and included a few mugshots of their own.Does the name Blake Farenthold ring any bells, @TexasGOP ?By the way, is he ever gonna reimburse the taxpayers for that $84K?Asking for a state. Adam Mincks (@RufusOverYrHead) August 29, 2018As a tax paying Texan Id like to know when that 84k is going turn up. Feckful Patricia (@patriciaturner) August 29, 2018Yo, isnt @farenthold your dude @TexasGOP ??? https://t.co/fVr0cMZhEM WakeUp2Injustice (@WakeUp2News) August 29, 2018Like George W Bush? Or did you forget about him? Rogue NASA (@RogueNASA) August 29, 2018Bush Once Pleaded Guilty to DUI https://t.co/XZm8LY6xSY Rogue NASA (@RogueNASA) August 29, 2018@TexasGOP for comparison:@KenPaxtonTX mugshot for securities fraud pic.twitter.com/g8bqIyXjjH Linda Davis (@2old4stupid) August 29, 2018gfys pic.twitter.com/IqEPruuLlz jordan (@JordanUhl) August 29, 2018Matthew Gaetz U.S. Representative (R) DUI ALCOHOL OR DRUGS STATUTE: 316.193-1 BOND: $500 Gaetz serves on the Budget, Armed Services, and Judiciary Committees. #GlassHouses pic.twitter.com/LwexG8X2ex AMERICAN MOM ???? (@GOPAmericanMom) August 29, 2018pic.twitter.com/N4uj4Cc5Wv Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) August 29, 2018O’Rourke acknowledged the arrests in his hometown and birthplace of El Paso, Texasonce at age 23 for leaping a University of Texas campus fence and the other time at age 26 for driving while intoxicated. Prosecution declined to pursue ORourkes May 1995 misdemeanor arrest at the UTEP campus and the courts dismissed his September 1998 misdemeanor DWI arrest after he agreed to and completed an interdiction program.Others commenting on the GOP post found it a great time to resurface an urban legend as in the following posts.	Liberal
Future travel could get even more futuristic if a French company called Akka Technologies has its way. The company is shopping around an idea for a flying trainor rather, a plane that sheds its wings and takes a track when it lands. The transformation process resembles nothing so much as a scene in a Marvel movie. (See for yourself in this simulationthe plane doesnt exist yet.)The motivation behind Akkas “Link & Fly” is purely practical: The wings that come off to help airports facilitate quick turnovers. That means more flights can be scheduled in a day and more passengers could use stations closer to home. People could work in cities too far away for a driving commute. The plane is designed for smaller loads and shorter routes.  The process would minimize the airport part of the flying experience. Passengers would board a pod at a local station, undergo screening and security procedures while on the train, then at the airport a cockpit and wings would be added and the machine would take off from the runway, fully a plane. The Akka vehicle is about the size of an Airbus A320 and could carry up to 162 passengers. Another conversion is possible too: The seats could be removed to turn the passenger vehicle into a cargo plane. Neat. But is it possible?After cars go electric and autonomous, the next big disruption will be in airplanes, said Akkas Chief Executive Officer Maurice Ricci.  Planes need to become more efficient, less polluting and less noisy, said Ricci. Our role is to point our customers to technologies of the future. The company pitched its concept to Boeing and other air giants at the Paris Air Show, an annual showcase of new aeronautics concepts, products, and technologies, but so far, no commitments have been announced. The flying train, as yet, is a dream.  But if some brave company steps up, the future might be enthusiastically embraced by the public. With record numbers of people flying, relieving congestion at airports and on runways is becoming a challenge for busy terminals around the world. Crowded parking lots, airports, and planes have contributed to an experience that is stressful even before the plane is boarded. Reducing that stress and congestion could have an impact on the behavior of those who take to the skies.Drunk and disorderly passengers are making life difficult for flight attendants and fellow passengers. A Spirit Airlines passenger was convicted of sexually assaulting his seatmeat. However, a masturbating Southwest Airlines passenger got off scot-free. (Meanwhile, apparently consensual sex in flight is surprisingly common.) And thats just the humans behaving badly.	Liberal
Florida Republican gubernatorial candidate Ron DeSantis is taking serious heat for an interview he gave on Fox News this morning in which he used racist dog-whistle terms to attack his Democratic opponentAndrew Gillum, who won an upset victory last night to claim the Democratic nomination for governor.DeSantis called Gillum, who is African American, “articulate” and said Florida voters better not “monkey this up” by voting for Gillum.Uh Ron DeSantis just said FL shouldn't "monkey this up" by electing Andrew Gillum pic.twitter.com/nDPp3Hx7zc— Steve Morris (@stevemorris__) August 29, 2018“You know, this is a guy, although hes much too liberal for Florida, I think hes got huge problems with how hes governed Tallahassee, you know he is an articulate spokesman for those far left views.”He went on:“The last thing we need to do is to monkey this up by trying to embrace a socialist agenda.”People noted that referring to African-Americans as “articulate” and comparing them to monkeys are widelyseen as traditional racist rhetorical ploys.Giving the impression most black people are something other than articulate usually— Zay SoNasty (@KingCarter410) August 29, 2018I found it! Idiom from the 1800s regarding how aimless monkeys seems to be while playing. It has clearly developed different connotations since the 1800s, though. :/ https://t.co/IDQ1IGAW7c— Megan Sawyer (@ghost_girl13) August 29, 2018DeSantis was slammed for his remarks, and rightly so.Racist trashpile & white nationalist @RonDeSantisFL publicly makes a guttural, hateful racist reference a/b @AndrewGillum. And of course, the white nationalist propaganda machine at Fox News eggs him on. These bigoted scum don't belong in civil society at all. #LockThemALLUp https://t.co/zctxLWcdN1— Mark Hughes (@markhughesfilms) August 29, 2018Republican strategist Ana Navarro was pointed in her criticism:As a Floridian, it was my hope this Governors race would be about the pressing issues facing our state -rising tides, algae outbreak, trade, economy, jobs. I had hoped it would not be one were racism was front and center. That hope lasted all of 10 hours. https://t.co/KeBENvMovw— Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) August 29, 2018It really didn’t take long, did it?Didn't even take 24 hours for Andrew Gillum's Republican opponent to make an open appeal to bigotry on Fox News. https://t.co/t4aVyBgly2— Grant Stern (@grantstern) August 29, 2018In response to the uproar, Fox News tried todistanceitself from DeSantis’s comments. Anchor Sandra Smith, who hosted DeSantis on her show, said in a statement:We do not condone this language and wanted to make our viewers aware that he has since clarified his statement.Smith then read a statement from the DeSantis campaign, which claimed that attempts to “characterize” his remarks as racist are “absurd.”Ron DeSantis was obviously talking about Florida not making the wrong decision to embrace the socialist policies that Andrew Gillum espouses. To characterize it as anything else is absurd. Floridas economy has been on the move for the last eight years and the last thing we need is a far-left democrat trying to stop our success.But the furor online continued.	Liberal
Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum won Florida’s Democratic gubernatorial primary yesterday in a shocking upset which rocked the Democratic establishment and could make him the first African American governor in Florida history.President Donald Trump has made it clear, however, that he’s thrown his support behind Republican primary winner Ron DeSantis, and he used his Twitter platform to brand Gillum a “failed Socialist Mayor” who “has allowed crime & many other problems to flourish in his city.”Not only did Congressman Ron DeSantis easily win the Republican Primary, but his opponent in November is his biggest dream….a failed Socialist Mayor named Andrew Gillum who has allowed crime & many other problems to flourish in his city. This is not what Florida wants or needs!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018Then Gillumwho has never claimed to be anything other than a Democrat but has, as The Tampa Bay Timespoints out, “embraced the rising progressive wing” of his partyfired back, and his response made it clear that he views the president as the antithesis of what he hopes to achieve should he win this year’s gubernatorial election.“What our state and country needs is decency, hope, and leadership,” he wrote, before taking a jab at the president.What our state and country needs is decency, hope, and leadership. If you agree, join us at https://t.co/fm0ODFFGWU. Also, @ me next time, @realDonaldTrump. https://t.co/59dQy8RLsm— Andrew Gillum (@AndrewGillum) August 29, 2018People cheered Gillum’s response.Your reply to Trump has more RTs and likes than Trump's original tweet… pic.twitter.com/tX2JQFoNUo— P Resists (@4everNeverTrump) August 29, 2018Trump must really be scared that youll win because hes tweeting about you! Andrew youre everything this country needs right now and Im looking forward to seeing the amazing impact youre going to make on Florida! Much love from Chicago!— Naomi schmahl (@SchmahlNaomi) August 29, 2018Fired up and ready to go! This moment is so much bigger. The vibration of victory has inspired some and frightened others! You are going to be an awesome governor. Look past the dark negatives and continue to embrace your inclusive message and the light! Congratulations!!!!— Michael Rivers (@BigMike825) August 29, 2018lmao. If FL didn't want Gillum, we wouldn't have voted for him. Congrats, sir, and I will be voting for you in November. — Azalea Forrest (@AForrestWrites) August 29, 2018Another person noted that, contrary to Trump’s accusation, crime rates in Tallahassee have actually been reduced.Seems like @AndrewGillum has done a good job a working to reduce crime. https://t.co/zu3z1yLyZM— Kevin Owen (@Kevin_Owen) August 29, 2018Gillum did, earlier this year, seek a state of emergency and aimed to shift power to the county sheriff, but that proposal was “rejected.”In May, WCTV noted that:According to the Florida Department of Law Enforcements Annual Crime Report, both Tallahassee and Leon County saw significant drops in crime during 2017.Overall, the crime rate has dropped by 15.1 percent. The Leon County Sheriffs Office saw a reported 18.7 percent reduction, and the Tallahassee Police Department saw a 14.3 percent reduction.Although there has been a decrease in crime, Leon County still stands as the Florida county with the highest crime rate per 100,000 people, with a rate of 4,802.4 for 2017. However, the FBI has warned readers not to make comparisons between the varying counties because of outside factors that affect the numbers, like a high student population.Earlier this morning, when asked if he’s “scared” of Trump’s role in the election, Gillum was adamant that “Trump and Ron DeSantis are both scraping from the bottom of the barrel.”“I actually believe that Florida and its rich diversity are going to be looking for a governor who is going to bring us together, not divide us, not misogynist, not racists, not bigots. They are going to be looking for a governor who is going to appeal to our higher aspirations as a state,” he added.	Liberal
This morning’s tweet storm from President Donald Trump showed him attacking Florida’s first black nominee for governor, accusing former President Barack Obama of spying on his campaign, and insisting that Hillary Clinton colluded with the Russians.Sometime during all that, he also managed to tweet a claim he has made before about news organizations using anonymous sources — that they’re not to be trusted because “they are fiction.”Anonymous Sources are really starting to BURN the media. @FoxNews The fact is that many anonymous sources dont even exist. They are fiction made up by the Fake News reporters. Look at the lie that Fake CNN is now in. They got caught red handed! Enemy of the People!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018When you see anonymous source, stop reading the story, it is fiction!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018Of course, this comes hours after Trump tweeted accusations that China hacked the emails of Hillary Clinton, in reference to an article that cited two anonymous sources.Many already know that anonymous sources are vital to the function of a free press. Some of the most pivotal “scoops” in American history–including the Watergate scandal–relied on well-vetted, inside sources who spoke on the condition of anonymity.ButNew York Timesreporter Maggie Haberman didn’t focus on this widely-known fact. Instead, she cited Trump’s own history as his own anonymous source.Pete Hammill didnt want to run Trump stories at the NYDN in the 1990s because he said they were too often Trump trying to serve as an anonymous source about himself. https://t.co/wUMbBJ96mJ— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) August 29, 2018And, to be clear, often trying to make claims on background about himself with tenuous factual basis https://t.co/WBNBUEtUEH— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) August 29, 2018The NYC opinion-maker view of Trump was based on decades of self-promotion and deals that didnt always hold. It was at odds with how viewers in across the country who saw him on the Apprentice in a high-backed chair over many years had formed opinions of him long before 2015. https://t.co/KfsECbD5K5— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) August 29, 2018Philip Rucker of theWashington Postalso made a similar point.Trump for decades has been an anonymous source to journalists  from floating news about his sex life to NY tabloids to discussing his presidential decisions with the White House press corps https://t.co/70IAD2YOZE— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) August 29, 2018AndWashington Monthlycontributor David Atkins.Trump is partly convinced of this because he has spent so much of his life lying to the press as an "anonymous" source and even making up fake identities to praise himself.Trump is an immoral con artist, and he projects those ethics onto the entire world. https://t.co/16q5mcE3KB— David Atkins (@DavidOAtkins) August 29, 2018Few were surprised.OMG, Maggie! You mean he lied????— kristi quaintance (@kristiquaintanc) August 29, 2018So really, not much has changed?— Rose Alene (@rosehasse) August 29, 2018Another instance of Trump projecting his own behavior onto others. No, YOURE the puppet!— LFO (@TheResistenzz) August 29, 2018Trump’s rails against unnamed sources have seen a resurgence after a recent CNN story, which reported that former Trump attorney Michael Cohen was prepared to testify that Trump knew ahead of time about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with liaisons to Russia. The article cited multiple unnamed sources, one of whom proved to be Cohen’s attorney Lanny Davis, who later claimed that he “should have been more clear.” CNN has stood by the story, but the misstep has still bolstered Trump’s claims to his supporters.However, as Haberman pointed out, Trump has often anonymously contributed to stories about himself with false information, frequently using pseudonyms to do so.	Liberal
Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) got into a Twitter spat with President Donald Trump Tuesday night after the president claimed Flake had his Senate endorsement rejected.Trump tweeted that Flake, who is not seeking reelection and has been an outspoken critic of the president, had endorsed Martha McSally, the Arizona Republican Congresswoman running to replace him, and that McSally had rejected his endorsement.McSally won her party’s nomination for U.S. Senate Tuesday night.“Martha McSally, running in the Arizona Primary for U.S. Senate,” Trump said, “was endorsed by rejected Senator Jeff Flake….and turned it down – a first!”Martha McSally, running in the Arizona Primary for U.S. Senate, was endorsed by rejected Senator Jeff Flake….and turned it down – a first! Now Martha, a great U.S. Military fighter jet pilot and highly respected member of Congress, WINS BIG. Congratulations, and on to November!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018According to Flake, however, this is completely untrue. Flake responded with a tweet of his own.“Sorry, @realDonaldTrump. I made no endorsement in this race,” Flake tweeted. “I think the last endorsement I made was in the Alabama race.”The comments were posted along with a picture of a check Flake wrote to “Doug Jones for U.S. Senate” — a Democrat — with the memo field filled out: “country over party.”Sorry, @realDonaldTrump. I made no endorsement in this race. I think the last endorsement I made was in the Alabama race.https://t.co/yob5VVNAOe pic.twitter.com/KbzKAGRdDB— Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) August 29, 2018The shade of it all.This is some good shade.— Andrew (@AndrewSnarks) August 29, 2018Twitter users urged Flake to secure his legacy by voting against confirming Brett Kavanaugh, whom Trump tapped in June to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy on the Supreme Court.https://twitter.com/ItchieBootie/status/1034710885200265217Vote NO on Kavanaugh so we can have a more balanced court…— Cheryl Hart (@cherylhart00) August 29, 2018Please vote NO to Kavanaugh!— None of your beeswax (@ngalliga) August 29, 2018Dear @JeffFlake,Can you follow up your 100 bucks with a meaningful check on the President? Maybe oppose the confirmation of Kavanaugh, so Trump doesnt get away with his many crimes?Asking for a country hurtling into authoritarianism.— Matthew Bailey (@MatthewIA03) August 29, 2018#CountryOverParty #VoteBlueToSaveAmerica— Dakota Blue (@DakotaBlueGirl) August 29, 2018Leave a lasting legacy, Senator Flake. Please vote no on Kavanaugh. Experimental Knitter (@ExptKnitter) August 29, 2018Flake had originally posted the image of the check ahead oflast year’s special Senate election in Alabama:Country over Party pic.twitter.com/JZMTaEYdxQ— Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) December 5, 2017Jones, a Democrat, defeated Republican Roy Moore, filling the seat left vacant by Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Moore was a controversial candidate, having been accused of having inappropriate relationships with teenage girls when he was in his 30’s.Flake’s reply is a swipe at Trump, who endorsed Moore’s bid for the Senate. In fact, Trump threw his weight behind Moore eight times on Twitter between September and December 2017, when the special election was held. One post was deleted, however, in violation of the Presidential Records Act.Trump endorsed Moore after the 71-year-old won the G.O.P. primary last September.Congratulations to Roy Moore on his Republican Primary win in Alabama. Luther Strange started way back & ran a good race. Roy, WIN in Dec!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 27, 2017Trump wrote that Moore“sounds like a really great guy.” Moore, who served as chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court,was removed from office – twice. The first time was in 2003 for refusing to obey a court order to remove a Ten Commandments monument from the state judicial building. Moore was subsequently reelected and then suspended in 2016 after he encouraged probate judges to refuse to issue same-sex marriage licenses.Spoke to Roy Moore of Alabama last night for the first time. Sounds like a really great guy who ran a fantastic race. He will help to #MAGA!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 27, 2017When Moore lost to Jones in December’s special election, Trump tried to walk back his endorsement, claiming “the deck was stacked against” Moore.The reason I originally endorsed Luther Strange (and his numbers went up mightily), is that I said Roy Moore will not be able to win the General Election.  I was right! Roy worked hard but the deck was stacked against him!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 13, 2017On Tuesday, another abysmal Senate candidate Trump endorsed – former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio – failed to secure the Republican nomination. Trump also pardoned Arpaio last year after Arpaio was convicted of contempt of court.So. Much. Winning. https://t.co/8ey0yOrn4P— AngelaBlueWave  (@AngelaBlueWave) August 29, 2018You endorsed one other candidate and pardoned the third, but now act as if you had something to do with her primary win?#TrumpResign Or dont. #MuellerIsComingForYou either way.— Dana DelSignore (@MrsDanaD) August 29, 2018Twitter mercilessly tore into Trump for not having many successes.	Liberal
Office spaces for federal agencies and legislators in Washington DC get renovated and upgraded to meet the changing needs of the group involved. After 9/11, many older federal buildings got failing marks for their locations and facilities being vulnerable to attack.As such, many sensitive offices relocated outside the city to meet the post-9/11 security concerns. The personnel at the J. Edgar Hoover Building of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on Pennsylvania Avenue were slated for a similar move to a Maryland or Virginia location where the required walls, fencing and guard posts could be added.But that plan got scrapped and Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) thinks they know why. They cited the location of President Donald Trump’s Trump International Hotel in relation to the J. Edgar Hoover Building.1. Trump Hotel in DC has a lease with the GSA 2. As president, Trump oversees the GSA 3. Trump used his powers as president to intervene in a GSA project that could impact Trump Hotels profits…Any questions? https://t.co/878Cz8Wipl Citizens for Ethics (@CREWcrew) August 29, 2018But why would the President not want the building vacated? Hotel guests and diners at his DC hotel rarely include federal workers at the FBI building.Real estate within the heart of Washington DC is hard to come by. But it is a highly sought prize.With 20.8 million domestic visitors in 2017spending more than $7.5 billiondevelopers snatch up DC properties. Luxury hotels, restaurants and shopping centers now reside in buildings where federal workers used to toil.If the FBI headquarters project didnt potentially impact profits at Trump Hotel in DC, would Trump still be so interested in the project? https://t.co/gP2Ur1yjLe Citizens for Ethics (@CREWcrew) August 29, 2018The practice is so common, developers often refer to their building’s former purpose in either the new name or the advertising for their location. Trump International Hotel trades on its location within theOld Post Office and Clock Tower pavilionon the National Register of Historic Placesto draw tourists.In 2012, General Services Administration (GSA) announced choosing The Trump Organization as the redeveloper of the Old Post Office Building.The Trump Organization negotiated a 60-year lease of the building space with the GSA which was branded as the Trump International Hotel.A luxury hotel in the former FBI headquarters fabled J. Edgar Hoover Building certainly would draw tourists. And its location in relation to the President’s own hotel and greater name recognition than the Old Post Office could seriously impact the Trump Organization’s share of the hundreds of millions spent by tourists on accommodations each year.And that is at the heart of Trump’s interest in the FBI project according to CREW. The group claimed the President nixed the FBI move to a more secure location outside of DC so the J. Edgar Hoover Building could not be sold and become competition for his hotel.And the GSA Inspector General (IG)acting on a request from Virginia Democratic RepresentativeGerald Connollyconfirmed the President intervened. In a statement, Connolly said:“When we began this investigation, the prospect that President Trump was personally involved in the government-led redevelopment of a property in close proximity to the Trump Hotel was dismissed as a conspiracy theory. Now, the presidents involvement in this multi-billion-dollar government procurement which will directly impact his bottom line has been confirmed by the White House Press Secretary and government photographs.”The report Connolly requested from the GSA IG substantiated CREW claims the president involved himself in the decision to nix vacating the J. Edgar Hoover FBI Building and moving the agency to a secure location in either the Maryland or Virginia suburbs.But this is not the only trouble involving the President and his Trump International Hotel in DC.	Liberal
President Donald Trump tweeted shortly after midnight that China had hacked Hillary Clinton’s emails, without offering any evidence for the claim. The president also suggested that the FBI and the Department of Justice should investigate, adding that “their credibility will be forever gone” if they don’t follow through.Hillary Clintons Emails, many of which are Classified Information, got hacked by China. Next move better be by the FBI & DOJ or, after all of their other missteps (Comey, McCabe, Strzok, Page, Ohr, FISA, Dirty Dossier etc.), their credibility will be forever gone!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 29, 2018It was a perplexing statement, and China responded shortly afterward with a firm denial.We are firmly opposed to all forms of cyberattacks and espionage, foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a regular briefing Wednesday, adding that China is a leading defender of cybersecurity.Others criticized the president for what they say is just another in his long line of deflections against Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his probe into Russia’s subversion of the 2016 presidential election. The president was, among other things, accused of attempting to divert attention from his warm relationship with Russian leader Vladimir Putin, whom U.S. intelligence agencies have implicated in cyber attacks against the United States.Every one of your INTEL chiefs has told you that Russia hacked the DNC, not Hillary's emails. Why are you so desperate for it to have been anyone but Russia?#TrumpRussia #TrumpRussiaCollusion #TrumpCrimeFamily #PutinsPuppet— LiberalsAreSmarter (@SmartLiberal) August 29, 2018A week ago the president of the United States was implicated in a crime as an unindicted co-conspirator by his own attorney.#Obstruction then #TrumpRussia then #Payoffs then #CampaignFinanceLaws, and next – #Emoluments.— Dan's View (@dansturn_views) August 29, 2018More smoke and mirrors from the diminutive magician in the WH. No matter how long you point at others and scream into the phone the walls continue to close in in your criminal enterprise cloaked as an administration. Resign and save your family and your fortune.— Joel Price (@jprice720) August 29, 2018Nothing says relaxed and confident like rage-tweeting about your nemesis in the middle of the night.— Uninvited Co-conspirator (@TheLibAubuchon) August 29, 2018Why does Trump believes Russia, Fox and The Daily Caller over US intelligence, law enforcement, State Department and military sources.— Don't Leave Blank (@WTFisGoingOnDon) August 29, 2018They should hack into your tax filings first. That way we can see how many millions you owe the Russian oligarchs. Why are you so UNAMERICAN?? You hate the free press, you try to prevent peoples right to peaceful demonstration and you degrade a war hero and American Senator.— Lee (@leeablove) August 29, 2018Trump’s claim plays fast and loose with the facts.In July 2016, Trump, then a presidential candidate,invited Russia to hack Hillary Clintons emails, asking the Kremlin to find the 30,000 emails that are missing from the personal server she used during her tenure as Secretary of State.I will tell you this, Russia: If youre listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing, the Republican nominee said at a news conference in Florida. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.Trumps remarks shocked the Clinton campaignto say nothing of the worldand many perceived them as a potential threat to national security. Trump, as he does with most criticism, shrugged off these concerns. He made the request of the Russians on July 27, 2016.And on that same day, according to an indictment that the Justice Department released last month,the Russians took Trump up on his offer.The indictment details that on or about July 27, 2016, the Conspirators attempted after hours to spearphishfor the first time email accounts at a domain hosted by a third-party provider and used by Clintons personal office.July 27, 2016, Trump: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing."Indictment: That evening, Russian operatives targeted Clinton campaign emails "for the first time." pic.twitter.com/fanyaAxwfJ— Christopher Ingraham (@_cingraham) July 13, 2018The news was the confirmation many had waited for and caused some political commentators and members of the media to call out their colleagues for spending so much time focusing on the stories about Hillary Clintons emails rather than the specter of Russian collusion which lingered over the country even before the 2016presidential election was in full swing.	Liberal
In a closed-door dinner with Evangelical leaders, President Donald Trump warned his audience that there would be violence if Republicans did not remain in control after the 2018 midterm elections.In a secret recording, Trump claimed:The level of hatred, the level of anger is unbelievable. Part of it is because of some of the things I’ve done for you and for me and for my family, but I’ve done them…This Nov. 6 election is very much a referendum on not only me, it’s a referendum on your religion, it’s a referendum on free speech and the First Amendment. They will overturn everything that we’ve done and they’ll do it quickly and violently, and violently. There’s violence. When you look at Antifa and you look at some of these groups  these are violent people.The president also claimed to have abolished the Johnson acta law prohibiting the endorsement of candidates by religious organizations and charities, however that claim is false. While Trump did issue an executive order calling for leniency in its enforcement, Trump does not have the power to unilaterally strike down laws.However, it was his claims of violence that unsettled Americans the most.Holy begonias.Trump allegedly said this to 100 evangelical pastors last night, in a leaked (to NYT) audio clip that was recorded after press were escorted from the room.He appeared to claim that if Democrats winthere will be violence? Or something? https://t.co/iQ0d79m8Sn pic.twitter.com/uaSEqNwM3a— Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins) August 28, 2018Trump said if Dems get the House, they will overturn everything we've done, quickly and violently … When you look at some of these groups  these are violent people. RIP good people on both sides. We hardly knew ye.  https://t.co/vwVH3pYOMh— shauna (@goldengateblond) August 28, 2018I can no longer call Trump president.  He just announced that he does not want to be my president.  How?  He just announced there will be violence if the GOP does not win the mid terms.  If there are any other true Republicans left in the Republican party, put a stop to this!!!— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) August 28, 2018I once argued that people should give Trump a chance.  I am sorry for that. Now, I ask for "thoughts and prayers" that the Republican party finds any real Repbulicans to come out of hiding.  Inciting post election violence if you lose the election is not the American way Trump.— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) August 28, 2018@realDonaldTrump#trump predicts there will be massive violence if Democrats take control of the Congress in Nov.It sounds like he is suggesting and instigating such violence. As the Chief Law Enforcement Officer I would like to know what steps he is taking to prevent this.— Michael (@mterr337) August 28, 2018When it comes to condoning or inciting violence, Trump has proven himself to be skilled.	Liberal
Nearly 3,000 people perished when Hurricane Maria tore through Puerto Rico in 2017, according to a new study from the George Washington UniversityMilken Institute School of Public Health.Governor Ricardo Rossello (D-PR) upgraded the official death toll from 64 to 2,975 on Tuesday, making Maria the second-deadliest hurricane in American history.Maria slammed into the island territory as a category 4 storm, packing 154 mile-per-hour winds and causing more than $100 billion worth of damage as it ravaged homes and devastated local infrastructure.BREAKING: Gov. Ricardo Rossello raises Puerto Rico's official toll from Hurricane Maria from 64 to 2,975 following new study.— The Associated Press (@AP) August 28, 2018“Even though it is an estimate, we are officially changing, or we are putting an official number to the death toll,” Gov. Ricardo Rossello told reporters Tuesday. “We will take the 2,975 number as the official estimate for the excess deaths as a product of Maria.”Carlos Mercader, executive director of the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration, submitted a report on the study, which was conducted at the behest of the Puerto Rican government, to CBS News on Tuesday.“The reality is that we take this very seriously,” Mercader said on CBSN.“We mourn those people that died because of this storm and we have a responsibility of making sure that we prepare Puerto Rico for a future event like this.”“2,975  it’s 2,975 people who suffered,” Mercader added.Through statistics obtained from the Vital Statistics Records division of the Puerto Rico Department of Health, “the study looked at historical death patterns from 2010 to 2017 to estimate how many people would have died had Hurricane Maria not hit the island,” CBS reported.“That figure was then compared to the actual number of deaths from September 2017 through February 2018,” CBS wrote, “to determine what the report describes as the ‘estimate of excess mortality due to the hurricane.'”Poor populations were especially susceptible tohurricane-related fatalities, the report stated. It said that the risk of death was “45% higher and persistent until the end of the study period for populations living in low socioeconomic development municipalities.”The study concluded that males over the age of 65 had an elevated risk of death through February 2018, when the study ended.“Overall, we estimate that 40% of municipalities experienced significantly higher mortality in the study period than in the comparable period of the previous two years,” the report says.Additionally, the study was able to determine why the initial death toll from the government was so low. A lack of preparedness for the storm, and physicians ill-equipped to record causes of death, both contributed to the substantial statistical discrepancy.“The official government estimate of 64 deaths from the hurricane is low primarily because the conventions used for causal attribution only allowed for classification of deaths attributable directly to the storm, e.g., those caused by structural collapse, flying debris, floods, and drownings,” the report says. “During our broader study, we found that many physicians were not oriented in the appropriate certification protocol. This translated into an inadequate indicator for monitoring mortality in the hurricane’s aftermath.”The reportnoted that “physician unawareness of appropriate death certification practices after a natural disaster and the Government of Puerto Rico’s lack of communication about death certificate reporting prior to the 2017 hurricane season substantially limited the count of deaths related to Maria.”Lack of proper training on how to “appropriate death certification practices, especially in a disaster setting” also led to the underestimated casualty total.“Those interviewed said they did not receive information about how to certify deaths during, or in conditions created by, a disaster,” the report said, adding that a lack of communication between agencies further exacerbated the problem.Many stated that the Puerto Rico Department of Health (DoH) and the Puerto Rico Department of Public Safety (DPS) did not notify them about the CDC special guidelines for correct documentation of cases, on the importance of correctly documenting deaths related to the hurricane or on an emergency protocol for handling these cases.“There were a lot of things that failed in their response and we take responsibility for that,” Mercader said.“I do think this study helps to validate that sense that many people had that there were just too many deaths,” said Lynn Goldman, dean of the university’s Milken Institute School of Public Health.“At the end of the day,” she said, “we may never be able to fully identify all those 2,975 people.”Twitter blasted President Donald Trump for his poor handling of the disaster.	Liberal
New research into the tools carried by the 5,300-year-old Italian mummy called Otzi offer compelling new details into his life and final days.Otzi was discovered in 1991 by tourists hiking in the Italian Alps. Initially, he was treated as a suspicious death because no other mummy so well-preserved had ever been discovered in the region. Since he was carbon dated to between 3100 and 3370 BCE, Otzi has been yielding new discoveries regularly.Using a high-powered microscope, the most recent research has determined that Otzi had very recently re-sharpened the weapons and tools that he carried with him. He was also in the process of making new weapons: an unfinished longbow and a quiver of arrows. “Through analyzing the Iceman’s toolkit from different viewpoints and reconstructing the entire life cycle of each instrument, we were able to gain insights into Otzi’s cultural background, his individual history and his last hectic days,” said study author and archaeologist, Ursula Wierer.“The Iceman travelled with a compact lithic toolkit formed by few worn out, repeatedly resharpened tools, mostly used for cutting plants. tzi was a right-hander and had a quite good skill in pressure flaking by using his own functional retoucher.In 2001  a full decade after his discovery  scientists discovered Otzis cause of death. He was shot in the back with an arrow and the arrowhead tore through his left shoulder blade, puncturing his subclavian artery. This injury would have quickly proved fatal. The arrowhead still embedded in his shoulder is similar in shape and material to the arrowheads that Otzi was making when he died.His progress on the new longbow and arrowheads was slowed by a significant injury to his right palm. This wound never had time to heal, so the conflict that caused it would have been less than three days prior to his death, and possibly just a few hours. Researchers now speculate that the two conflicts may have been connected; Otzi may have been building a new arsenal to replace what hed lost in the first conflict when his attackers struck again.	Liberal
Arizona Republican U.S. Senate candidate Joe Arpaio has only one hero, and that hero is President Donald Trump, the controversial former sheriff told MSNBC’s Kasie Hunt on Tuesday.Hunt had asked Arpaio if he considered Arizona’s late Senator John McCain to be a patriot and a hero.His response:“That’s hard for me to answer. Because I never had a hero in my life until several months ago when I woke up and I found my hero.”And yes, he’s talking about Donald Trump.Me: Do you think John McCain is a patriot?Arpaio: "Yes.Me: A hero?Arpaio: That's hard for me to answer. Because I never had a hero in my life until several months ago when I woke up after 75 years and I found my hero. You know who that person is? Donald Trump. https://t.co/OCjq8yhLYV— Kasie Hunt (@kasie) August 28, 2018Arpaio, who endorsed Trump’s 2016 bid for president early in the campaign, has been a controversial figure in Arizona politics for decades, having served as Maricopa County Sherriff. Notably, he pridefully boasted that his detention centers were comparable toconcentration camps.“Im not going to back down, Arpaio said in an interview. “So what? Maybe it is a concentration camp. I dont want to make it look nice, like the Hilton Hotel. I want to say its a tough place so people dont want to come there.”Trump pardoned Arpaio in April 2017 after the former sheriff was convicted of contempt of court for his treatment of detained undocumented immigrants.“Throughout his time as sheriff, Arpaio continued his life’s work of protecting the public from the scourges of crime and illegal immigration,” the White House said in a statement. “Sheriff Joe Arpaio is now 85 years old, and after more than 50 years of admirable service to our nation, he is (a) worthy candidate for a Presidential pardon.”Today, Arpaio is running in the Republican primary for U.S. Senate in Arizona for the chance to replace Jeff Flake in the U.S. Senate. His bid for the Republican nomination is considered a longshot, as he’s up against former State Senator Kelli Ward and Congresswoman Martha McSally.Clearly from his response, Arpaio is still quite moved by Trump’s pardon.At the time, Arpaio was publicly incredibly grateful for Trump’s pardon, even channelingTrump’s own rhetoric:Thank you @realdonaldtrump for seeing my conviction for what it is: a political witch hunt by holdovers in the Obama justice department!— Sheriff Joe Arpaio (@RealSheriffJoe) August 26, 2017Social media was not at all surprised by Arpaio’s answer, though many found it to be pretty sad.When you've lived to 75 and your first and only hero is Donald Trump, you've had a miserable life.— Bruno Amato (@BrunoAmato_1) August 28, 2018I guess getting saved from certainly dying in prison was hero like in Sheriff Joe's little racist mind.— Chief Chris (@ChrisPizza4) August 28, 2018The quirky thing is that in American English, at least, it is customary to call 'Hero' a person you admire, a good role model.Someone could perform an heroic act, and still be a person not worth admiration. Imagine Trump risking his life to save someone else's.I know… Never!— Juan Arango (@ModusTollens) August 28, 2018Twitter thought Arpaio should raise his standards on whom he views as a “hero.”	Liberal
Google is correcting the president.Earlier today, President Donald Trump accused Google of rigging results in its search engine to favor unflattering articles about him.….results on Trump News are from National Left-Wing Media, very dangerous. Google & others are suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good. They are controlling what we can & cannot see. This is a very serious situation-will be addressed!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 28, 2018Trump did not clarify how exactly the situation would be addressed or where his citing of “96% of results” came from. However, the statistic presumably came from the right wing site PJ Media. The writer who originally cited the 96% statistic did so by googling “Trump news” then compared the results to an unsubstantiated chart that divided various media companies as “left” or “right.” It was picked up by Lou Dobbs at Fox Business, which ran a segment on the false claim.One of the dumbest things  and there are many  about Trumps  Google tweets via Lou Dobbs is the false construction that media outlets are either left-or-right.Dobbs used this chart, which looks like someone just threw outlet names down at random and said, looks right!" pic.twitter.com/NNPo4uEBXK— Tom Namako (@TomNamako) August 28, 2018Trump later elaborated on the comments.I think what Google and what others are doing, if you look at whats going on with Twitter, if you look at whats going on with Facebook, they better be careful because you cant do that to people. So I think that Google, and Twitter and Facebook, they are really treading on very, very troubled territory and they have to be careful. Its not fair to large portions of the population.Google jumped into the fray with a statement denying such political rigging of search results:When users type queries into the Google Search bar, our goal is to make sure they receive the most relevant answers in a matter of seconds. Search is not used to set a political agenda and we dont bias our results toward any political ideology. Every year, we issue hundreds of improvements to our algorithms to ensure they surface high-quality content in response to users queries. We continually work to improve Google Search and we never rank search results to manipulate political sentiment.According to Trump advisor Larry Kudlow, Trump’steam is “taking a look” at regulating Google searches. In addition, the House Energy and Commerce Committee plans to hold a hearing on the matter early next month.But Google isn’t the only one calling out the president.Except that you are wrong. When we Googled Hillary we got Uranium one, pizza gate, and other bs.And for Obama we got the stupid birth certificate theory that YOU started.GOP voices arent being suppressed. They are leading the lies.— CountessofNambia (@theClaudiaInez) August 28, 2018Barack Obama created the US Digital Service. His FCC protected Net Neutrality. He was the first president to write a line of code.Donald Trump doesn't know how the internet works. https://t.co/yDrfonvSzo— Randy Bryce (@IronStache) August 28, 2018Trump now appears to be threatening to force Google to promote positive stories about him. The reason all the news about you seems bad, Donny, is because you keep doing bad stuff and all your associates keep getting charged with crimes and implicating you. https://t.co/McM5PvlVD5— Jonathan Riley (@JonRiley7) August 28, 2018And it opened the door for some Google-themed jokes as well.If you Google "Trump news" now, you get results about Trump complaining about Google being rigged against him.Now that's karma.— JRehling (@JRehling) August 28, 2018Trump officially ruined any chance that he'll ever be the Google Doodle.— deray (@deray) August 28, 2018The allegations that entire institutions are rigged against him is no new accusation from the president.	Liberal
The future that TED Talks have long promised is one step closer to reality, thanks to a new deal between pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and home DNA-testing kit service 23andMe. The four-year agreement will grant GSK exclusive access to 23andMes database of genetic information, with the goal of developing new, targeted drugs and therapies. This isnt the first time that 23andMe has offered its customers data to another organization for research, but those partnerships have previously been transparent. What does this new deal mean for genetic privacy and who will benefit from the partnership?To privacy advocates, theres little more alarming than the sale of genetic information. The data could be used by insurance companies to identify certain genetic markers as high-risk, leading to increased premiums even decades after the test is performed. Law enforcement could subpoena the data from 23andMe (or any other genetic testing company) without informing the customers and without their consent. The law surrounding questions of genetic privacy and ownership are in their infancy. And no genetic testing company can ensure that your genetic information remains private.But in this case, the most serious issue seems to be profit. 23andMes estimated 5 million customers can choose to opt out of having their DNA used in research. Those who dont opt out have essentially donated their genome to science. But that munificence is one-sided: whatever drugs or treatments are developed using the customers genetic information will be sold by GSK or 23andMe for profit. And theres certainly profit to be made. Separate from this deal, GSK has invested $300 million in 23andMe. Its a relative bargain for GSK, because 23andMes database is up to 10 times larger than other available databases, and its customers have already paid for partial sequencing  typically a major expense.For its part, GSK is confident that the partnership will produce effective treatments, which will benefit patients across the world. To begin, theyre focusing on treatments for Parkinsons disease based on a gene called LRRK2 that is mutated in some Parkinsons patients.When you get a genetically validated target and you pursue it, its twice as likely to end up being a medicine, said GSK chief science officer Hal Barron.	Liberal
LuisIncio Lula da Silva, Brazil’s former president and now presidential candidate, leads in a new poll, released last week, which found that 37.3 percent of Brazilians favor his candidacy. His opponent,Jair Bolsonaro,a longtime congressman in Brazils Chamber of Deputies, is a distant second, with 18.3 percent of Brazilians expressing their support. This would all be well and good if it wasn’t for one little detail: Lula is in prison.Latest election poll gives jailed former President Lula da Silva massive lead – over double the voting intention of second placed Jair Bolsonaro. pic.twitter.com/OeVlXSqi1F— Brasil Wire (@BrasilWire) August 20, 2018Surging support for #Brazils Lula!The first polls since campaigning for the October #elections officially started last week showed growing support for Mr Lula da Silva, a populist who retains immense support among the countrys poor masses.https://t.co/oLdordEFDX pic.twitter.com/wEzwD1SQV1— Kamiar Mohaddes (@KamiarMohaddes) August 23, 2018Lula was arrested in April 2018and sentenced to 12 years in prison on charges of money laundering and passive corruption. He had been immensely popular during his presidential tenure, at one point makingTime‘s list ofThe 100 Most Influential People in the World. But his administration had, from the start, been dogged by numerous corruption scandals, and he’d been accused of illegal bribery to benefit his political party and influence peddling, including lobbying for government contracts in foreign countries for the Odebrect corporation, which has a stake in engineering, construction, and petrochemicals. He was ultimately convicted following an investigationcodenamed Lava Jato (Car Wash).A pedigree for scandals such as these would, you’d think, topple the career of any politician, but what makes the results of the poll particularly sobering is the fact that it comes just days after the United Nations ruled that the Brazilian government must allow Lula to campaign for the Workers Party (PT) while in prison because his legal appeals are still in progress. A panel from the U.N. Human Rights Committee requested that Brazil “not prevent Lulafrom standing for election in the 2018 presidential elections until his appeals before the courts have been completed in fair judicial proceedings.The UNs human rights committee says Brazil cant disqualify jailed ex-President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva from upcoming elections. Thousands supporting his candidacy rallied this week in Brasilia. He is serving a 12-year sentence on corruption charges. pic.twitter.com/U1T4VqtXFp— AJ+ (@ajplus) August 17, 2018The U.N.’s action has been criticized:https://twitter.com/2_180_824_23600/status/1031715432061911041While this so called UN keeps in their human rights commission countries like Cuba and Venezuela how credible can they be to mess with a country legal sovereignty?. Lula is convicted, legally arrested for money laundryHow can an outsider dictate this?Bunch of clowns— Nick Abreu (@NickCAbreu) August 18, 2018The Brazilian government disagreed with the U.N.’s statement, responding that “the conclusions of the [UN rights]committee have the character of a recommendation and do not have a legally binding effect.But according toSarah Cleveland, the vice-president of the UN Human Rights Commission, “The precautionary measures issued are not recommendations, they are legally binding and impose an international legal obligation on Brazil to fulfill them.”Cleveland emphasized thatthe Geneva-based commission “has no interest in the results of the elections, only in the right of everyone to participate,” addingthat failure to comply with the precautionary measures would mean that Brazil would be violating international treaties which it has already signed off on.The UN Human Rights Commission issued the declaration on August 17, and in its ruling made recommendations on Lula’s “right to participate in media events and debates, as well as convene with members of his Workers’ Party,” according to Telesur.Brazil’s Workers Party, however, lauded the U.N.’s decision in a publicstatementfrom PT President GleseliHoffmann:It’s impossible to hide the violations practiced in Brazil by sectors of the judicial system, in cooperation with Globo (Brazil’s largest media conglomerate), the mainstream media and the coup government from the rest of the world. Either comply with the United Nations decision or put Brazil on the list of lawless, undemocratic nations.	Liberal
President Donald Trump told Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in June that he recalled the attack that sparked the United States’s entry into World War II.“I remember Pearl Harbor,” Trump said. “Im on to the Japanese.”During a tense meeting in June, President Trump caught Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe off guard."I remember Pearl Harbor," Trump said. "Im on to the Japanese." Inside Trumps hot and cold relationship with Japans prime minister. https://t.co/hZU7y9AIym— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) August 28, 2018The Washington Post reported on Tuesday that Trump shocked Abe with his remark during a contentious White House meeting about trade. “Ive never heard him [trash]-talk Abe. And you cant say that about a lot of the world leaders,” one anonymous official told WaPo.The meeting, which left Abe exasperated, epitomized the paradoxical nature of Trumps closest relationship with a foreign leader.Trump, born on June 14, 1946, cannot possibly remember the Pearl Harbor incident, which took place on December 7, 1941.I remember Pearl Harbor: Inside Trumps hot and cold relationship with Japans prime ministerFact checker- He wasn't born yet.Pearl harbor- 1941Birth of the antichrist- 1946 https://t.co/re9OBCwd9X— Red T Raccoon (@RedTRaccoon) August 28, 2018If Donald Trump remembers Pearl Harbor, I demand to see his Birth Certificate.— Michael (@Mfs2K2) August 28, 2018He has, however, recognized the historical significance numerous times on Twitter.Twitter’s reaction: WTF?Does Trump own a time machine?Donald Trump remembers living through Pearl Harbor. Conclusion: Donald Trump owns a time machine. https://t.co/ml4w4ETstu via @Teadoffliberals— James Kosur (@JamesKosur) August 28, 2018Was he referring to the movie?Trump: I remember Pearl Harbor. Terrible. Ruined Josh Hartnetts career. Dont know how Affleck still gets work.— Scott Linnen (@ScottLinnen) August 28, 2018Trump: I remember Pearl Harbor it was one of the greatest  love stories of all time  wonderful film, @BenAffleck was  tremendous  https://t.co/3Xd7NOAqav— Migzz (@miguelmsanchezz) August 28, 2018Seriously, what’s going on here?A picture is worth a thousand words. pic.twitter.com/8oA1KH9IAE— Jaguarcita65 (@stankyPirateHo) August 28, 2018Abe sees Trump as a dolt.— Dayman (@45hasfailed) August 28, 2018It reminded some people of when Trump told Canada he remembered the burning of the White House during the War of 1812 – which was fought against the British.TRUMP: Im on to you Canada & Japan – I remember the War of 1812 AND Pearl Harbor!FRANCE: *scrambles to find receipt for Louisiana Purchase— TrivWorks (@TrivWorks) August 28, 2018Trump to Trudeau: "Didn't you guys burn down the White House?"Trump to Abe: I remember Pearl Harbor. https://t.co/BMjvXGm3QZhttps://t.co/9UlwcK3RaA pic.twitter.com/APvw280K28— Elise Foley (@elisefoley) August 28, 2018What about when the United States dropped two atomic bombs on Japan in 1945?Do you also remember Hiroshima, Mr President? https://t.co/dpG6EaPz0g—  (@yuxelcan) August 28, 2018The Alamo? The fifth of November?Trump remembers Pearl Harbor? Okay. Does he remember the Alamo? How about the fifth of November?— Janet Morris (@janersm) August 28, 2018Why,Mr. President?Trump mentions Pearl Harbor?  Raising that  in trade talks is quite insane.  Japan and the US are good friends.  When he talked with PM May of the UK, did he say, "I remember King George" …. or talked with Merkel of Germany,  "I remember Hitler"?!  Scrambled eggs for brains.— Millgrist (@Millgrist1) August 28, 2018WaPo wrote that although Trump and Abe have developed a close working relationship, to the point of Trump considering Abe to be a “good friend,” “the presidents unorthodox approach to North Korea and deeply negative view of Japans trade practices have locked Trump and Abe in a series of agree-to-disagree stalemates, to the growing frustration of Tokyo.”	Liberal
President Donald Trump left many on social media perplexed after he tweeted a quote from Fox News host Lou Dobbs which claimed he “has done more for minority groups in this country than any president in decades.President Trump has done more for minority groups in this country than any president in decades.  @LouDobbs— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 28, 2018The punchline here is, of course, that Trump has been accused of harboring racial animus toward minorities since well before he became president. People immediately pushed back.….. https://t.co/iHX5OJvgFi— Jill E Bond (@JillEBond) August 28, 2018*more to https://t.co/J9no9607lF— Dan Savage (@fakedansavage) August 28, 2018Lou Dobbs? Your fellow Obama birther advocate, Lou Dobbs? 74 year old, very white Lou Dobbs? I am sure there is not a man in the country more qualified to speak about the great lives minorities in America have under you! Thanks Mr President— keith hall (@kfhall0852) August 28, 2018REALLY ! Where is the Trump stronger version of The Civil Rights Act of 1964? Or do you mean Trump wanted to stop Black Athletes kneeling? He's never visited troops in harms way which are high % of non white. Maybe he helped Carter in Habitat? Oops no again.— Steve Lemper (@SteveLemper) August 28, 2018Poor Lou Dobbs used the wrong preposition.  Trump has done more "TO" minority groups, not "FOR" them.  Because nothing Trump has done has been helpful to the minorities – Muslim bans, family separations, name calling, trying to end DACA, turning ICE into a deportation force, etc.— Denise Ingram (@leclemot) August 28, 2018"President Trump has inspired more minorities to get registered to vote and to run for office because they despise him and everything he does."— Geraldine Mongold (@gamongold) August 28, 2018That Trump tweeted a comment from Lou Dobbs is rather suspect. Dobbs has expressed frustration over the lack of a wall at our nation’s southern border to keep migrants out. He has, among other things, claimed that illegal immigrants are responsible for bringing cases of leprosy to the United States, helped Trump propagate the “birther” myth that former President Barack Obama is not a citizen of the United States, and was the subject of a yearlong investigation which found that he used undocumented workers to maintain his properties.Trump’s history of racial animus is well documented. In the 1980s, he insisted that the Central Park Five, four African American juveniles and one Hispanic juvenile who wereconvicted of a rape and assault they did not commit, were guilty anyway, even though a convicted rapist and murderer already serving a life sentence in prison confessed to the crime and DNA evidence confirmed his guilt.Earlier this year, he was criticized forcalling Haiti and African nations shithole countries.”Last week, Trump was accused of taking a talking point straight from the playbook of white nationalists when he said hed asked Secretary of State Mike Pompeo toclosely study the South Africa land and farm seizures.I have asked Secretary of State @SecPompeo to closely study the South Africa land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers. South African Government is now seizing land from white farmers. @TuckerCarlson @FoxNews— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 23, 2018Land reformmore specifically land restitutionwas one of the promisesmade by theAfrican National Congresswhen it came to power in South Africa in 1994, in response to theNative Lands Act of 1913. which prohibited the establishment of new farming operations, sharecropping or cash rentals by blacks outside of the reserves on which they were forced to live. White nationalists have claimed that the movement has sparked a genocide against white farmers whove opposed redistributing lands.Trump also came under fire on the campaign trail for referring to Mexicans as rapists” and “murderers.”In the days since the body of Mollie Tibbetts, a Brooklyn, Iowa college student was found, Trump and many conservatives have seized on the fact that the suspect,Cristhian Bahena Rivera, is a Mexican national who authorities say was in the country illegally, and have used the murder to make the case for harsher immigration legislation.	Liberal
Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) is facing backlash after claiming to reporters on Monday that the late Senator John McCain (AZ) is partially responsible for President Donald Trump’s reaction to his death.The president faced public outcry for his refusal to remark on the character of McCain, with whom he often clashed, as well as for his unwillingness to release a statement calling McCain a hero and for returning flags to full staff after briefly lowering them to half-staff over the weekend.Many saw Trump’s actions as petty and vindictive. Trump later relented, but not before Senator Inhofe attempted to defend him:Well, you know, frankly, I think that John McCain is partially to blame for that because he is very outspoken. He disagreed with the President in certain areas and wasn’t too courteous about it.When asked what he thought about Trump refusing to call McCain a hero, Inhofe–who has repeatedly used the term to describe McCain–said, “Oh, let them have their thing, I have no opinions about that. He was my hero.”The statements came after Inhofe praised McCain in the Senate.You always remember the people who help you when no one else would. John McCain was a fighter who was deeply loyal to his country, his family, his constituents &the causes he cared about. He was a patriot &always faithful. @SenJohnMcCain, thank you for your service and sacrifice. pic.twitter.com/KmTVpmHP7q— Jim Inhofe (@JimInhofe) August 28, 2018Many social media users were outraged at his statement that McCain was partially to blame.I thought Senator James Inhofes lowest point was bringing a snowball to the Senate floor to disprove global warming.  But now he blames Senator McCain the day after his passing for the petty behavior of our president.  Disgraceful.  https://t.co/sJ4oCmV7AB— Mike Levin (@MikeLevinCA) August 28, 2018Senator Jim Inhofe said John McCain is partially to blame for trumps refusal to lower the White House flag to half staff in honor of John McCain. Repeat: Inhofe blames McCain – who died – for disrespecting McCain.There is no bottom with these people. https://t.co/D7F5vO3IlJ— Philippe Reines (@PhilippeReines) August 27, 2018I read today that Sen. James Inhofe GOP says that the late John McCain is to blame for the president raising the flag back up at the White House. Blames Late John McCain for the presidents actions. What a POS for president. #mcCain #honor pic.twitter.com/lh24EBgKA6— Jack Hendricks (@jackhendricks5) August 28, 2018Dear Sen. Inhofe; The late Sen. mcCain is not partially to blame for the WH flag controversy because he was mean to Trump. McCain is a hero because he spoke truth to power regardless of party. You should try it sometime. @MSNBC https://t.co/sBEy46jMlM— Frank Figliuzzi (@FrankFigliuzzi1) August 28, 2018And that Inhofe appeared to contradict his statements in the Senate.@JimInhofe is a Trump BS artist. Speaks with forked tongue. On Senate Floor praises McCain then blames McCain for flag issue. Never put a small man into a big job is appropriate when talking about Trump & Inhofe.— STAN DUZY (@stan_duzy) August 28, 2018Though Inhofe said McCain “wasn’t too courteous” about his disagreements with Trump, the same could be said–possibly more accurately–about Trump.	Liberal
Early Tuesday morning, President Donald Trump jumped on Twitter to whine that when he Googled “Trump news” – only the “Fake New [sic] Media” appeared in the results. The president suggested Google was “rigging” the internet and “shutting out” right-leaning news sites.Specifically, Trump claimed that 96 percent of “results on Trump News are from National Left-Wing Media, very dangerous.”Google search results for Trump News shows only the viewing/reporting of Fake New Media. In other words, they have it RIGGED, for me & others, so that almost all stories & news is BAD. Fake CNN is prominent. Republican/Conservative & Fair Media  is shut out. Illegal?  96% of…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 28, 2018Trump accused Google of “suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good.” Google is“controlling what we can & cannot see,” the president asserted. “This is a very serious situation-will be addressed!”….results on Trump News are from National Left-Wing Media, very dangerous. Google & others are suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good. They are controlling what we can & cannot see. This is a very serious situation-will be addressed!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 28, 2018At first glance, these tweets appear to be another example of Trump deriding news he doesn’t like as “fake.” But he didn’t pull the “96 percent” statistic out of thin air.The Toronto Star’s Daniel Dale found that Trump was citing a right-wing opinion site, PJ Media, which since Saturday has been yammering about actual news showing up when people search Google – for news.Dale tweeted on Tuesday that a PJ Media article published over the weekend “complains that the News tab for Trump brings up…news sites…rather than right-wing opinion sites…like PJ Media.”Trumps 96% complaint about Google is from an article by right-wing PJ Media that has been making the rounds online in the last day. It complains that the News tab for Trump brings up…news sites…rather than right-wing opinion sites…like PJ Media. https://t.co/RfEM6a0PRm pic.twitter.com/HOfN7zyQm0— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) August 28, 2018Indeed, this is exactly what the article said.Dale shared the “bias” alleged by PJ Media, which he called “very silly.”Here is the bias classification system the PJ Media uses. Among the left-wing outlets: the Associated Press, USA Today, Politico, The Hill, Bloomberg, Reuters (to which Trump just gave an interview)…In other words, this is all very silly. But you knew that. pic.twitter.com/tfmcDbcMn4— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) August 28, 2018“PJ Media did not appear in the first 100 results, nor didNational Review,The Weekly Standard, Breitbart, The Blaze, The Daily Wire, Hot Air, Townhall, Red State, or any other conservative-leaning sites except the two listed above,” Paula Boynard of PJ Media wrote. All of the sites Boynard listed are right-wing opinion sites – not news.“CNN has a disproportionate number of articles returned when searching for “Trump”  nearly 29 percent of the total,” Boynard added. “In fact, left-leaning sites comprised 96 percent of the total results.”I have my own problem with Google. Every time I search for current U.S. President, it keeps telling me its Donald Trump.— Courtney McCain  (@CourtneyMcCain) August 28, 2018CNN, The Washington Post, and NBC were the three most-frequent results for a “Trump news” Google search – because they are news sites.you're literally the stupidest person to ever walk the earth. pic.twitter.com/tof6d14BTC— drew olanoff (@yoda) August 28, 2018For the president and his followers, this is apparently a problem. For people who care about news, it’s how Google is supposed to function.These people really dont understand how Googles algorithm works. Those conservative sites get less traffic and have less reliable content and therefore show up in fewer search results. This isnt complicated.— Chase Individual-1 Teeples (@nchaseteeples) August 28, 2018Here’s what Twitter had to say about the president “rage-Googling” himself.	Liberal
The death of Mollie Tibbetts has become a political talking point for conservatives since her body was discovered last week. The suspect,Cristhian Bahena Rivera, is a Mexican national who authorities say was in the country illegally; as a result, many Republicans, including President Donald Trump himself, have used the murder to make the case for harsher immigration legislation. But the father of the victim is not having it.Speaking at his daughter’s funeral service, Rob Tibbetts rejected the vitriol directed at the Hispanic community since Rivera was arrested for the murder.The Hispanic community are Iowans. They have the same values as Iowans, he said, according to theDes Moines Register. “As far as I’m concerned,” he added, “they’re Iowans with better food,” highlighting how he ate at numerous Mexican restaurants while staying in Iowa for six weeks as authorities worked to locate his daughter.The line drew applause from the more than 1,200 funeral attendees. Those following the case on social media also praised the grieving father.If more Americans were like Rob Tibbetts, this country would work the way it's supposed to work. https://t.co/aj7w9eD4Pu— Noah Smith (@Noahpinion) August 28, 2018It breaks my heart that Rob Tibbetts had to say this at his daughter's funeral: "The Hispanic community are Iowans. They have the same values as Iowans."But he did have to. Because some very depraved people decided to politicize her death and use it as a convenient deflection. https://t.co/PbwAEsARpl— Nora Walsh-DeVries (@NoraWD) August 28, 2018Astounding bravery from Rob Tibbetts…wish there were more McCains in Congress.#CountryOverParty "The Hispanic community are Iowans. They have the same values as Iowans," he said. "As far as I'm concerned, they're Iowans with better food."— CJGilchrist (@CJGilchrist2) August 27, 2018Dad's eulogy for Mollie Tibbetts:"Lets do what Mollie would do. Lets say what Mollie would say."The Hispanic community are Iowans. They have the same values as Iowans…As far as Im concerned, theyre Iowans with better food.Mollie is my hero. https://t.co/cag5QPvQ8A— Kedron Bardwell (@KedronBardwell) August 27, 2018Saying he wanted to celebrate “something wonderful,” Tibbetts asked a newly married couple to stand up. The crowd applauded.“That felt good. Thats what Mollie would have done,” he said.“Let’s try one more,” he continued. “Lets hear it for the Bears football team  for their first win.” The crowd applauded once more: Mollie’s younger brother, Scott, who is the starting quarterback, helped lead the team to victory, scoring three touchdowns.Tibbetts also asked the community to come together in honoring his daughter:Today, we need to turn the page. Were at the end of a long ordeal. But we need to turn towardlife Mollies life  because Mollies nobodys victim. Mollies my hero.The person best equipped to help us through this is Mollie.So lets try to do what Mollie would do. Lets say what Mollie would say.Other family members recalled Mollie’s love for others.MorganCollum, Mollies cousin stressed that Tibbets was nonjudgmental and, as the Des Moines Register points out, “sought to find the good in everyone she met.”“Please,dont be mad at God for taking Mollie away from us,”Collum told the crowd. “Rather, praise God for his perfect creation in making a soul so sweet, so pure and so caring to all.”The Reverend Corey Close, the pastor at St. Patrick Catholic Church in Brooklyn, Iowa, also encouraged the mourners to find inspiration in Mollie’sbright, shining light and “infectious joy and smiling.”When I think of the life of Mollie Tibbetts and her tragic death, I wonder why she is gone and I am still here, he said, adding:Do not let Mollie die in vain.Rededicate yourselves to live a good life, a faithful life, a life of goodness and compassion. It is so easy to be bitter, to feel like we have nothing to contribute. But Mollies energy, her smile and her tenacity for doing good reminded me who I am called to be.In recent days, the grieving family had demanded that “despicable partisans” not politicize Mollie’s death.	Liberal
President Donald Trump succumbed to immense public outrage on Monday and ordered United States flags at all government buildings and facilities lowered to half-staff to honor Senator John McCain (R-AZ) who passed away Saturday night.The White House had lowered the flag on Sunday night before raising it again on Monday. The flag will now remain at half-staff until the day of McCain’s intermentthe customary procedure for those of McCain’s stature. The White House released the proclamation this afternoon.President Trump also released a proclamation ordering the US flag to be flown at half-staff https://t.co/wiITheWjWQ pic.twitter.com/1mQgF7c2o5— CNN International (@cnni) August 27, 2018The president also released his first statement outside of a tweet addressing the character and service of John McCain, sayingDespite our differences in politics and policy, I respect Senator John McCain’s service to our country and, in his honor, have signed a proclamation to fly the flag at half-staff until the day of his interment.The president’s initial remarks were relayed via Twitter and addressed to McCain’s family.My deepest sympathies and respect go out to the family of Senator John McCain. Our hearts and prayers are with you!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 26, 2018For many, however, the move of lowering the flag now is too little, too late.Forced…doesnt count https://t.co/ezyxqqtgzH— Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) August 27, 2018Someone finally put Trump in Time-Out, put out a WH proclamation to honor Senator John McCain & returned the flag to half-staff. This MUST have been the scenario, considering it took 48 frickin' hours, to do so!  https://t.co/aomyMP52h5— Paul&Mary (@PaMa261075) August 27, 2018What a petty POS! Uses the flag he claims to hold so sacred as a political tool once again. Trump Shows respect only when public pressure mounts. Vote out his enabling party.— David (@theboonieman) August 27, 2018Oh Jesus @realDonaldTrump lowers the WH flag after outrage, he should not have to be shamed into doing the right thing.  I swear to god hes the absolute worst- and the contrast between the man McCain was and the man Trump is could not be any more clear.— K.M (@Kalpersk) August 27, 2018The US Flags are at #HalfStaff as they should've been. It shouldn't take national pressure for trump to have done the right thing. I guess that call for permission from Putin came in after all.— Lisa Lamb (@LisaLamb8493707) August 27, 2018The president’s ire for John McCain has been longstanding, originally gaining infamy with comments from Trump that McCain, who spent nearly six years as a prisoner of war, was “not a war hero” because he was captured.As recently as four days before the senator’s death, the president, while speaking at a rally in West Virginia,appeared to imply that McCain was unreliable:We’ve got really no majority. We haveif you really look at it, probably we could say 49-49, 51-49. We have some people that aren’t able to vote. We have some people that are a little unreliable. They don’t exactly like what I’ve done to their career. They don’t love what I’ve done and that’s okay. And I don’t like what they’ve done either.McCain famously shattered the president’s hope of fulfilling a pillar of his 2016 campaign: the repeal of Obamacare. In a tie-breaking vote, McCain broke with many in his party to maintain Obamacare until an adequate replacement plan could be reached.McCain, whom to many represented an era of decency in American politics widely feared to be waning, was never afraid to stand up to the president.	Liberal
Seth Frotman,student loan ombudsman at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) submitted a letter of resignation to his boss, Acting Director of the CFPB, Mick Mulvaney. It begins as most resignations would, but quickly veers into an indictment of the motives and mindset of the Trump administration.“It is with great regret that I tender my resignation as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Student Loan Ombudsman,” Frotman begins. “It has been the honor of a lifetime to spend the past seven years working to protect American consumers; first under Holly Petraeus as the Bureau defended America’s military families from predatory lenders, for-profit colleges, and other unscrupulous businesses, and most recently leading the Bureau’s work on behalf of the 44 million Americans struggling with student loan debt.”“However, after 10 months under your leadership, it has become clear that consumers no longer have a strong, independent Consumer Bureau on their side.”Frotman goes on to explain the universal importance of consumer protections for student loan recipients.“Each year, tens of millions of student loan borrowers struggle to stay afloat. For many, the CFPB has served as a lifelinecutting through red tape, demanding systematic reforms when borrowers are harmed, and serving as the primary financial regulator tasked with holding student loan companies accountable when they break the law.”“The challenges of student debt affect borrowers young and old, urban and rural, in professions ranging from to clergymen. Tackling these challenges should know no ideology or political persuasion. I had hoped to continue this critical work in partnership with you and your staff by using our authority under law to stand up for student loan borrowers trapped in a broken system.”The resigning student loan ombudsman then accuses Mulvaney of a criticism many leveled against the embattled appointee of President Donald Trump: putting financial gains for big money donors and corporations ahead of consumers and taxpayers.“Unfortunately, under your leadership, the Bureau has abandoned the very consumers it is tasked by Congress with protecting. Instead, you have used the Bureau to serve the wishes of the most powerful financial companies in America.”Mick Mulvaneythe Trump administration appointee heading the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as well as acting Directing of the CFPBfamously stated about his time as a Republican Congressman for South Carolina:“We had a hierarchy in my office in Congress. If you’re a lobbyist who never gave us money, I didn’t talk to you.”Frotman asserts in his resignation that Mulvaney continues that hierarchy now at the CFPB. If you gave money to the Trump campaign or Trump causes or spent money at Trump Organization properties, Mulvaney would talk to you, leaving average United States citizens out in the cold.The man who once protected consumers from predatory student loans makes three specific allegations against Mulvaney’s leadership at the CFPB.“As the Bureau official charged by Congress with overseeing the student loan market, I have seen how the current actions being taken by Bureau leadership are hurting families. In recent months, the Bureau has made sweeping changes, including:”Within each allegation, Frotman gave descriptions clearly pointing the finger at Mulvaney’s leadership andby extensionthe Trump administration. The resigning ombudsman made that indictment clear in the following conclusion of his resignation.	Liberal
During a Monday afternoon Oval Office press event to announce a new trade deal with Mexico, Donald Trump had some major difficulties getting Mexican President Enrique Pea Nieto on his speakerphone.Trump had to wait for the President of Mexico to get on the phone in the Oval Office:"Enrqiue? Ok, you can hook him up""Hello?""You want to put that on this phone, please? Hello?" Then the call connects: "Thank you, Enrique and congratulations…we've all worked very hard" pic.twitter.com/uDzHVknfWe— Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) August 27, 2018Trump and Nieto have reportedly agreed to changes to NAFTA, which Trump has derided as being disadvantageous to the United States.According to CNN, the biggest items agreed upon by the United States and Mexico are as follows:Trump added that the NAFTA monicker will be dropped from the newly negotiated trade deal.But the details of the deal were overshadowed by the speakerphone fail, which is now going viral for an entirely different reason: a Twitter hero has set it to the closing credits theme song of HBO’s Veep.And it works well…almost too well:so just as an experiment I put the president's ~supremely~ awkward oval office moment to the @VeepHBO closing credits theme song just now. uhh it works v well. pic.twitter.com/uWO5d7EVTF— Arlen Parsa (@arlenparsa) August 27, 2018This is literally the only time I have happily listened to @realDonaldTrump   And I laughed so hard. Thank you.— Sandra Beggs (@sandra_beggs) August 27, 2018Twitter thinks we’re living in an episode ofVeep.	Liberal
President Donald Trump ignored questions from reporters repeatedly on Monday about Senator John McCain (R-AZ), who died on Saturday at the age of 81.Major news outlets documented the president’s crass behavior on Twitter after Trump refused to address McCain’s death during a meeting with Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta in the Oval Office.WATCH: President Trump declines to comment when asked multiple times in the Oval Office for his thoughts on the death of John McCain. pic.twitter.com/7mxstj1CXT— NBC News (@NBCNews) August 27, 2018CBS News White House correspondent Mark Knoller tweeted a picture of Trump sitting at the Resolute Desk with his arms crossed, which was fittingly symbolic of the president’s dismissal of the press.Pres Trump declined to answer questions at the end of the announcement. Was asked to reflect on the legacy of Sen. McCain, but declined. Sat silent and cross-armed as press pool herded out of the Oval Office. pic.twitter.com/Yzmqnxq14M— Mark Knoller (@markknoller) August 27, 2018Knoller later added that Trump also ignored his requests for comments in the Rose Garden, while the First Lady seemed to enjoy the spectacle. “Mrs. Trump smiled at the sight of reporters shouting questions,” Knoller said, “as WH aides herded them out of the room.”Again at the Rose Garden and in the Oval Office, Pres Trump again declined to respond to questions about his thoughts on John McCain. Mrs Trump smiled at the sight of reporters shouting questions, as WH aides herded them out of the room. pic.twitter.com/0V869ckJn9— Mark Knoller (@markknoller) August 27, 2018ABC’s Jonathan Karl said he asked Trump if he “had any thoughts on the legacy of John McCain,” noting that Trump “heard me but did not answer.”In the Oval Office just now I asked @realDonaldTrump if he had any thoughts on the legacy on John McCain. He heard me but did not answer. pic.twitter.com/reVwoJCMzV— Jonathan Karl (@jonkarl) August 27, 2018"Mr. President, any thoughts on John McCain?" @jonkarl asks following Pres. Trump's announcement on trade. "Any thoughts on the legacy of John McCain?"The president does not respond or take any other questions. https://t.co/YL8O2XeiHY pic.twitter.com/6BNpwS7GKU— ABC News (@ABC) August 27, 2018Shortly thereafter, while “standing six feet from the president in the Oval Office,” Karl once again asked Trump if he’d like to say anything about McCain and the legacy he leaves behind.Karl asked: “Any thoughts on McCain? Anything at all about John McCain? Was McCain a hero? Nothing at all about McCain?”Trump “stared ahead and said nothing.”Standing about six feet from the President in the Oval Office, I once again asked the President about John McCain. Any thoughts on McCain? Anything at all about John McCain? Was McCain a hero?  Nothing at all about McCain?  He stared ahead and said nothing. pic.twitter.com/2TsPYohp9K— Jonathan Karl (@jonkarl) August 27, 2018Bloomberg’s Jennifer Jacobs tweeted that Trump ignored reportersfour times when pressed to reflect on McCain. Jacobs said that although White House staffers were trying to push reporters out of the Cabinet Room, it was obvious the president “still heard us.”Trump refused for the fourth time today to answer our questions about his thoughts on John McCain.The latest opportunity was in the Cabinet Room with Kenyas president. WH comms staff yelled at us to leave the room to drown out our questions, but Trump heard us. pic.twitter.com/T8Xw5hCimO— Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) August 27, 2018CNN’s Jim Acosta, whom Trump routinely chides as “fake news,” was also brushed off by the president.Trump has been given three opportunities to comment on John McCain today, twice in the Oval and once along the Colonnade. The president declined.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 27, 2018Jeremy Diamond of CNN said the same thing.Trump has been asked on 4 separate occasions today if he has anything to say about the late Sen. John McCain. He has ignored all of those questions.— Jeremy Diamond (@JDiamond1) August 27, 2018“POTUS again did not respond to repeated shouted questions about McCain when he stopped at the Rose Garden or in Oval Office,” the White House press pool’s report of the event at the White House said.End note of the pool report on Trump welcoming the President of Kenya: "POTUS again did not respond to repeated shouted questions about McCain when he stopped at the Rose Garden or in Oval Office."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 27, 2018Trump’s silence was blasted on social media as callous and disrespectful.	Liberal
The First Lady of the United States garners a lot of attention from the media and the public. In the modern era of social media and smart phones, the last few FLOTUS saw analysis of every public appearance and outfit they wore skyrocket.As a former model, the current FLOTUS Melania Trump knows her way around a photo-op, but likely never faced the level of public scrutiny into her private life she experiences now. While she did marry a man who constantly courts publicity for his primary source of incometrading on the Trump brand did she sign up for this?An ally that may surprise some says the answer is no.The dancer, actress, screenwriter and director who prefers to be known by her professional pseudonymStormy Danielscame to the defense of Melania Trump’s right to privacy in an interview with UK paper the Mirror.During the interview, the Mirror raised the question of the FLOTUS’s happiness in her marriage.But Daniels maintained Melania Trump’s happiness is no one’s business but Melania Trump’s. Daniels said:“People should stop speaking for her. Maybe shes happy.”“Everything we say about her is a projection. Some people misplace sorrow and pity on another person.”“The entire world would be interested to know what she feels. But if we never know, that is her right and I support it.”Support for any FLOTUS is a fickle thing. Some love her, some love to hate her and public opinion often turns on a dime with one kind act or a political misstep.It was an honor to meet and have tea with Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth ll. @POTUS and I enjoyed the visit and her company very much! pic.twitter.com/hTYIEPcjs6 Melania Trump (@FLOTUS) July 14, 2018Thanks ???? I stopped listening after “Melania Trumps *Be Best* campaign” and started thinking about her coat. ?????????? pic.twitter.com/sY3pOvdg6n LaoTzu (@LaoTzu5) August 23, 2018However the point that no First Ladyor future First Gentlemanreceived public placement to be in their position is valid. The public voted for their spouse, not them.As expected, reactions on social media were mixed. Most focused on the FLOTUS’s life and her ability to speak for herself rather than asking about her right to privacy which was the point of Stormy Daniels’ statements.I feel sorry for her. She has to put up with lies, cheating. But the money may make her happy. Gloria Johnson (@gloriaann1960) August 27, 2018It’s her business but she acts like a moody kid. Doesn’t have any sense of duty towards her position. But then, neither does her husband. Worst 1st lady ever. Totally MIA. Janet Butler (@lottacontinua16) August 27, 2018Speaking for her? They are always talking about her and criticizing her. Our beautiful FLOTUS can speak for herself when SHE wants to ???????????? Ernestine Lascano (@ErnestineLasca2) August 27, 2018Pretty sure she knew exactly what she was getting into. There is a lot more to marriage than sex. zxq9 (@zxq9_notits) August 27, 2018Happy?  Paid for , most likely…. pic.twitter.com/wk1D2NxzTD Dietrich Buxtehude (@Buxtehude11) August 26, 2018the woman who knowingly married a cheater after two failed marriages who needed a working visa, came for a poor country and wanted to get her family out, that married a megalomaniac. She signed up for it and she is living it. No sympathies needed. She got everything she asked for Regina Webster (@ginageewebby) August 26, 2018It would be helpful if she started speaking Daniel (@kacang_tua) August 26, 2018However some appreciated the sentiment from Daniels as the following shows.	Liberal
After lowering flags to half-staffin honor of Senator John McCain over the weekend, flags were back to full staff this morning, causing many to call out the White House for insensitivity toward the late Senator.Flags at the White House were lowered to half staff this weekend for the passing of John McCain but this morning they are back to full staff. There was no official proclamation from President Trump (as he has done in the past for other notable figures passing) pic.twitter.com/rmUO6xbtrp— Karen Travers (@karentravers) August 27, 2018Camera shot facing south over the White House – you can see the flag at the WH at full staff while the flags surrounding the Washington Monument are lowered pic.twitter.com/xT2KdPLgpB— Karen Travers (@karentravers) August 27, 2018When it didn’t look as though the White House was going to change course, The American Legion stepped in to issue a strongly worded letter urging an “appropriate presidential proclamation” for McCain, demanding that flags fly at half-staff until his funeral.Denise Rohan, the National Commander for The American Legion, made the demand in an open letter to the president:Dear President Trump,The American Legion urges the White House to follow long-established protocol following the death of prominent government officials.Mr. President, just this year, you released presidential proclamations noting the deaths of Barbara Bush and Billy Graham. Senator John McCain was an American hero and cherished member of The American Legion. As I’m certain you are aware, he servedfive and a half years as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam and retired from the U.S. Navy at the rank of Captain. He then served in the U.S. Congress for more than three decades.On the behalf of The American Legion’s two million wartime veterans, I strongly urge you to make an appropriate presidential proclamation noting Senator McCain’s death and legacy of service to our nation, and that our nation’s flag be half-staffed through his internment.NEW: The American Legion, the nation's largest veterans service organization, is calling on Trump to make "appropriate presidential proclamation" noting McCain's service & that flags be half-staffed until his funeral.Here's the National Commander's open letter to the president: pic.twitter.com/gISSOAh7Xx— Vera Bergengruen (@VeraMBergen) August 27, 2018People were impressed that they took such action:Inbox: @AmericanLegion admonishes President Trump for failing to keep flags at half staff to honor POW and sitting US Sen., John McCain. Can anyone remember this happening before? pic.twitter.com/VU3Flp2lNw— Aaron C. Davis (@byaaroncdavis) August 27, 2018We agree with the @AmericanLegion, but feel a deep sense of sadness that they even had to write this letter, to Trump. https://t.co/azq7FqrREP— VoteVets (@votevets) August 27, 2018Wake up, #MAGA@realDonaldTrump does *not* care about veterans, as evidenced by Trump's classless response to the death of @SenJohnMcCain. The *only* person Trump cares about is HIMSELF.Thank you, @AmericanLegion, for standing up for this brave American hero. https://t.co/CluRc2s9Ng— Dr. Dena Grayson (@DrDenaGrayson) August 27, 2018The American Legion had to write a letter to the President of the United States of America urging him to lower the White House flag for a sitting Senator who sacrificed for this country.Let. That. Sink. In.— Black GoldTexas Tea (@Sainttea12) August 27, 2018And it appears the White House was impressed as well, since they complied with The American Legion’s demand shortly thereafter:President Trump also released a proclamation ordering the US flag to be flown at half-staff https://t.co/wiITheWjWQ pic.twitter.com/1mQgF7c2o5— CNN International (@cnni) August 27, 2018The president also released his first statement outside of a tweet addressing the character and service of John McCain, sayingDespite our differences in politics and policy, I respect Senator John McCain’s service to our country and, in his honor, have signed a proclamation to fly the flag at half-staff until the day of his interment.In addition, flags were returned to flying at half staff:"We come on the air with breaking news: the White House lowering its flag to half staff in memory of John McCain, reversing a decision made earlier today that landed the President in hot water from the right and the left… " – @NicolleDWallace pic.twitter.com/fnI29yTUyT— Deadline White House (@DeadlineWH) August 27, 2018Theres been a lot of focus on this today, but the White House flag is now at half staff, after being fully raised earlier in the day. pic.twitter.com/MPZvGjnN7T— Eamon Javers (@EamonJavers) August 27, 2018For many, however, the move of lowering the flag was too little, too late.Forced…doesnt count https://t.co/ezyxqqtgzH— Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) August 27, 2018Someone finally put Trump in Time-Out, put out a WH proclamation to honor Senator John McCain & returned the flag to half-staff. This MUST have been the scenario, considering it took 48 frickin' hours, to do so!  https://t.co/aomyMP52h5— Paul&Mary (@PaMa261075) August 27, 2018What a petty POS! Uses the flag he claims to hold so sacred as a political tool once again. Trump Shows respect only when public pressure mounts. Vote out his enabling party.— David (@theboonieman) August 27, 2018Oh Jesus @realDonaldTrump lowers the WH flag after outrage, he should not have to be shamed into doing the right thing.  I swear to god hes the absolute worst- and the contrast between the man McCain was and the man Trump is could not be any more clear.— K.M (@Kalpersk) August 27, 2018The US Flags are at #HalfStaff as they should've been. It shouldn't take national pressure for trump to have done the right thing. I guess that call for permission from Putin came in after all.— Lisa Lamb (@LisaLamb8493707) August 27, 2018About time.	Liberal
Republicans in Congress have been notoriously MIA in their oversight of the Trump administration, especially considering how many scandals have emanated from the White House in such a short period of time.But it appears those very same Republicans are well aware of what scandals are worthy of Congressional investigation, as this list of potential investigations uncovered by Axios reveals.The list has reportedly been circulating in Republican circles in an effort to brace the party for what could lie ahead after the November elections."Axios has obtained a spreadsheet that's circulated through Republican circles on and off Capitol Hillincluding at least one leadership office  that meticulously previews the investigations Democrats will likely launch if they flip the House."The partial list via @axios: pic.twitter.com/CpElCtU2tW— Ryan Goodman (@rgoodlaw) August 26, 2018One particularly telling part of the Axios piece:.@jonathanvswan: "Lawyers close to the White House tell me the Trump administration is nowhere near prepared for the investigatory onslaughtand they consider it among the greatest threats to his presidency"Reminds me of this recent @paulwaldman1 piece:https://t.co/WzSCWnq5Yo— Ryan Goodman (@rgoodlaw) August 26, 2018As HuffPost’s Matt Fuller puts it:This list really highlights how seriously Republicans have taken their executive oversight responsibilities.They know these things deserve to be investigated and they dont do it. Pretty cool way to uphold your constitutional oath.— Matt Fuller (@MEPFuller) August 26, 2018The list is made up of various scandals of which house Democrats have already requested an examination, but Republicans have exercised their hold over the legislature to block the inquiries. Should Democrats take back the legislative branches, they would likely have the momentum to proceed.The list is fraught with possible scandals from President Donald Trump’s White House. Some–like security clearances, the firing of James Comey, Trump’s family businesses, and possible conspiracy with Russia–have been widely discussed in American media. Others, like the ban on transgender service members in the military, action’s in the aftermath of the Hurricane in Puerto Rico, the firing of U.S. attorneys, and other possible offenses could be under scrutiny.Many on Twitter are unsatisfied at GOP leadership’s failure to take these scandals seriously.The @GOP doesnt give a rats rump about executive oversight unless it has a negative effect on their personal bank account. These mofos have sold their souls. #VoteGOPOut— Michael Durkin (@michaeldurkin58) August 26, 2018Here's my problem with this: if the R's know all this is happening on their watch, why aren't they doing the investigating themselves? Oh yeah, corruption they hope no one notices.— PersisterhoodMom (@johndrewsmom) August 26, 2018This list must be made public so the people csn use their voice against this congress and administration! Vote out those Republicans who remain cowards by being quiet and remain cowards afraid of trumps wrath and only interested in their jobs! Vote Nov 6! Use your power— Debra Weir (@DebraWeir1) August 27, 2018Don't Republicans want to know the truth about these issues? They're supposed to work for the people, not Trump.— Saint Veritas (@SaintVeritas16) August 27, 2018This is a list of scandals Republicans are knowingly and admittedly ignoring.— E.B. (@bloomonthetweet) August 26, 2018And to the Republicans, WHY IN THE HELL AREN'T YOU INVESTIGATING THESE ITEMS?  ISN'T THIS SUPPOSE TO BE YOUR CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY TO DO SO?— Rob#NotMyPresident (@rhiles2760) August 26, 2018The spreadsheet reportedly contains over 100 possible investigations, most of which Democrats have already requested be made. To many, it’s no surprise that the list should be so long. The Trump White House has been inundated with scandals since inauguration day.	Liberal
President Donald Trump takes a lot of criticism for the time he spends focused on his own popularity. On the day after his inauguration, former White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer, stated the President’s biggest concern lay with the comparatively small size of his crowd rather than the new duties Trump just assumed as a national leader.As such, Trump often tweets about favorable poll results. On the evening after a mass shooting in Jacksonville, Florida, the President focused once again on his own public approval numbers.There was only one problem. The number the President amplified with his tweet reflected public disapproval of the job he does, not their approval.On Sunday evening around 8:30pm EST, Trump took to Twitter and posted:“Over 90% approval rating for your all time favorite (I hope) President within the Republican Party and 52% overall. This despite all of the made up stories by the Fake News Media trying endlessly to make me look as bad and evil as possible. Look at the real villains please!”Over 90% approval rating for your all time favorite (I hope) President within the Republican Party and 52% overall. This despite all of the made up stories by the Fake News Media trying endlessly to make me look as bad and evil as possible. Look at the real villains please! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 27, 2018But the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll he quoted gave him a 44 percent approval rating and a 52 percent disapproval rating. After his tweet, more people went to view the poll numbers amplifying the news of the negative public opinion of the President.The Twittersphere quickly pointed out the President’s mistake. Some responded directly on Trump’s own tweet.Sir, you dont have 52% approval in your own family. Give me a break. Marc Young, SPHR (@ReginaldBDogg) August 27, 2018Wow, you can’t even read a poll correctly. 52% disapprove of your performance. Who’s making things up, again? Whining about the media ‘making you look bad’ while multiple associates plead guilty to felonies is hilarious. Bryant Lister (@BryantLister1) August 27, 2018yep! #PresidentCantRead #LiarInChief pic.twitter.com/U4C2p71AjP Orange October (@beastiecube) August 27, 2018Did you check your figures, Donald? Of course you didn’t check them. A 44% approval rating, a 52% disapproval rating & 56% of voters say you aren’t honest. November is coming. Mueller is coming. The NY AG is coming. We’re all coming to put checks & balances back on the WH. Linda Ott (@LindaOt45535156) August 27, 2018By the way, the 52% is a correct number. But it’s the current disapproval rating for @POTUS according to Gallup. The approval is only at 42%. More lies from trump. @FLOTUS Linda Maniccia (@zooyork03) August 27, 2018He’s thinking of the WSJ poll out today which has him at 52% DISAPPROVALHe’s done this beforeThere is no current polls that has him at 52% approvalhttps://t.co/uhrEPfiVEP https://t.co/RkZ2UfJlur Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 27, 2018Trump is lying about his approval rating again. He doesn’t have a 52% approval rating even with his favourite pollster, Rasmussen – he’s at 46% in their latest daily tracker. Overall, he’s at 41.9% (FiveThirtyEight) or 43.6% (RealClearPolitics). pic.twitter.com/d5F6jSj93W Daniel Dale (@ddale8) August 27, 201844% approval rating on FOX News this morning. Your fake news president lied again and its only lunch time. JM (@toquell) August 27, 2018Some offered advice.Your need for approval is so sad. Just do your job and quit lying. Erin Thomas (@ErinThomasRev) August 27, 2018Youve got it backwards, genius. Its 52% disapproval. If youre going to brag, get it straight! Christopher???? #VoteThemOut?? (@cwebbonline) August 27, 2018You might want to go back you re-read those poll results. 52% of Wall St/NBC poll DISAPPROVE of Trump. Rasmussen polling has the DISAPPROVAL rate at 54%. #TrumpLies #FakePresident #AlternativeFacts SHAWN HILL (@ssejhill) August 27, 2018You know what I hope, Donnie? I hope the next potus is a great leader who works to earn the respect & admiration of Americans so she doesnt have to lower herself to tweeting/begging people to like her. Someone like Obama. He never hoped to be respected. He exhibited respect. Debby Carroll (@thefamilycrypt) August 27, 2018Could you try not lying for just one day? Seriously, just one. Jon (@Noogajoe) August 27, 2018While others thought the President should be focused on matters other than his own popularity as the following responses show.	Liberal
Following Senator John McCain’s (R-AZ) death on Saturday, social media has been flooded with tributes and support for McCain’s family. As the news of his passing broke, President Donald Trump tweeted his “deepest sympathies and respect” to the late Senator’s family – but nothing about McCain.My deepest sympathies and respect go out to the family of Senator John McCain. Our hearts and prayers are with you!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 26, 2018The president and McCain had a rocky relationship, often exchanging barbs and regularly criticizing the other, like when Trump said he “liked people who weren’t captured,” referring to McCain’s time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam.CNN reported on Monday that the White House had drafted an official statement about McCain for Trump, but that the president, who spent the weekend golfing, wasn’t interested in releasing it. On Sunday, the Washington Post learned that Trump only wanted to send a tweet, instead of giving a more visible statement.Other world leadershowever, offered the sorts of tributes one would have expected of the American President.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, for example, said McCain was “an American patriot and her whose sacrifices for his country, and lifetime of public service,were an inspiration to millions.”Senator John McCain was an American patriot and hero whose sacrifices for his country, and lifetime of public service, were an inspiration to millions. Canadians join Americans tonight in celebrating his life and mourning his passing.— Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) August 26, 2018French President Emmanuel Macron wrote that McCain was a “true American hero” who “devoted his entire life to his country.”John McCain was a true American hero. He devoted his entire life to his country. His voice will be missed. Our respectful thoughts go to his beloved ones.— Emmanuel Macron (@EmmanuelMacron) August 26, 2018McCain was a “great statesman, who embodied the idea of service over self,” British Prime Minister Theresa May tweeted on Sunday. May added that McCain was a “friend of the UK.”John McCain was a great statesman, who embodied the idea of service over self. It was an honour to call him a friend of the UK. My deepest sympathies go to his family, and the American people.— Theresa May (@theresa_may) August 26, 2018German leaders were especially respectful to McCain in the hours after his passing. Chancellor Angela Merkel praised McCain as “one of the great political figures of our time.”Kanzlerin #Merkel zum Tod von John McCain: Senator McCain war eine der groen politischen Persnlichkeiten unserer Zeit, ein unermdlicher Kmpfer fr ein starkes transatlantisches Bndnis. pic.twitter.com/lSTXZAwHbV— Steffen Seibert (@RegSprecher) August 26, 2018Senator McCain was led by the steadfast belief that the aimof every political activity is to servefreedom, democracy and the rule of law. His death is a loss to all those who share that belief.GermanForeign Minister Heiko Maas said, “we will remember his voice.”Senator John McCain stand fr ein Amerika, das ein verlsslicher und enger Partner ist, das aus Strke Verantwortung fr andere bernimmt und auch in schwierigen Momenten zu seinen Werten und Prinzipien steht. Wir werden seine Stimme in Erinnerung behalten.— Heiko Maas (@HeikoMaas) August 26, 2018German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen expressed respect for McCain’s “impressively forthright, courageous and indomitable character,” while Bundestag President Wolfgang Schublesaid McCain’s “unshakable commitment to the values of the free world and trans-Atlantic alliance,”made him “an inspiration to many across the Atlantic and party lines.”NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg tweeted that McCain was an “American and Atlanticist,” who “will be remembered both in Europe and North America for his courage and character, and as a strong supporter of NATO.”John McCain – soldier and senator, American and Atlanticist. He will be remembered both in Europe and North America for his courage and character, and as a strong supporter of NATO. My thoughts are with his family and loved ones.— Jens Stoltenberg (@jensstoltenberg) August 26, 2018McCain ”never backed down from his beliefs & forever strived [sic]for a more peaceful & prosperous world,” Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wentweeted.I'll remember John McCain as a friend & a fighter. He never backed down from his beliefs & forever strived for a more peaceful & prosperous world. On behalf of the people of Taiwan, thank you.—  Tsai Ing-wen (@iingwen) August 26, 2018Reactions to Trump’s cold shoulder to McCain were brutal.You're total fool and lack any #humanity whatsoever! How dare you reject putting out a formal #WhiteHouse statement honoring #JohnMcCain ! IT'S YOUR JOB!!! Get to work, it's not your place to decide!#trump #TrumpResign #resist #TheResistance #TrumpLiesMatter #TraitorInChief— Will (@WillPolitico) August 27, 2018If you want to do one single decent thing in your life, stay off social media today. You couldnt say a single nice thing about an American Hero while he was alive. The country is in mourning and not interested in anything you have to say.— Lorrie  (@HerzogLorrie) August 26, 2018The least you can do now is make a formal proclamation for the nation to be flags half mast. But I bet your ego wont even let you do that.— Andrea Sanchez (@DreaSanz) August 26, 2018 pic.twitter.com/afrhGmCSgw— Mark Watkins (@phishears) August 27, 2018WH aides even prepare a statement for you.  You ignored it.  Now we are getting to the low of lows of your presidency when you don't even have the decency to push everything aside to say something for real, from the heart of hearts.— David Yee (@thedave2006) August 27, 2018Please say something about the man….put political differences aside and please fly the flag at half mast over America's House…not your house!! He was a veteran, combat wounded and prisoner of war. Please take notice!!— Gary L Marsiglia (@Miamiblue7) August 27, 2018This is the only thing you can say? This morning, the WH flag is at full-staff. You will NEVER be even 1/10 of the man John McCain was. He was a true hero, not only in war, but also in lifelong service to his country. You are only in service to yourself.— Ann El (@AnnEL205) August 27, 2018John McCain will enjoy widespread respect and admiration and his legacy will be that of a true American hero. Things you will never have. #DonaldTrump is a punch line to a bad joke.— Toronto MikeWe have a #Fake President! (@MStJoseph1) August 27, 2018American leaders outgunned Trump with their respects to McCain as well.	Liberal
The late Senator John McCain (R-AZ) ordered that President Donald Trump not be invited to his funeral, and his family intends to respect his wishes, requesting former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush to deliver eulogies. The senator, who died Saturday after his family announced he would cease treatment for glioblastoma,willlie in state in boththe Arizona Capitol and the U.S. Capitol rotunda before the funeral service in Washington National Cathedral andburial in Annapolis, Maryland.The news of McCain’s final wishes comes after Trump reportedly vetoed an official White House statement which would have emphasized McCain’s status as an American hero, lauding both his time in the military and his long tenure in Washington. The president shut this idea down, choosing to post a tweet instead. The tweet did not mention any of McCain’s achievements and was widely criticized as insensitive. Trump had not acknowledged McCain’s rapidly declining health prior to that tweet.My deepest sympathies and respect go out to the family of Senator John McCain. Our hearts and prayers are with you!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 26, 2018The White House has come under fire this morning now that the American flag is no longer at half-staff in honor of McCain.The flag-lowering, which lasted less than 48 hours,breaks from precedent that it is lowered until burial.Flags at the White House were lowered to half staff this weekend for the passing of John McCain but this morning they are back to full staff. There was no official proclamation from President Trump (as he has done in the past for other notable figures passing) pic.twitter.com/rmUO6xbtrp— Karen Travers (@karentravers) August 27, 2018Camera shot facing south over the White House – you can see the flag at the WH at full staff while the flags surrounding the Washington Monument are lowered pic.twitter.com/xT2KdPLgpB— Karen Travers (@karentravers) August 27, 2018The decision not to invite Trump to his own funeral is a significant parting shot from McCain, whose relationship with the president was often contentious.As if that weren’t enough, Monday afternoon saw the release of Senator McCain’s “farewell statement” in which McCain took one final swipe at the president:“Do not despair of our present difficulties but believe always in the promise and greatness of America.”The late John McCain's full farewell statement: pic.twitter.com/xfxGkv7MNd— NBC News (@NBCNews) August 27, 2018The two men sparred from the momentTrump, then a presidential candidate, infamously said that McCain, a veteran of the armed forces who was a prisoner-of-war in Vietnam, was not a war hero.He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who werent captured, Trump said at the time. McCain, in response, mocked Trumps multiple draft deferments,pointingto wealthy Americans who were able to get out of being drafted into service.McCain has been awarded the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, the Legion of Merit, a Purple Heart and the Distinguished Flying Cross for his military service.As CNN points out:Tributes for McCain and the lauding of his courage, honor, decency, character, and readiness to reexamine his own mistakes will unfold at a time when Trump is facing an unflattering public debate about his own personality and behavior. The guilty plea by the President’s former personal lawyer Michael Cohen and conviction of former campaign chairman Paul Manafort last week deepened the political and legal storm raging around the White House — but still did not push most Republican leaders to criticize Trump.In that context, the ceremonies marking McCain’s passing seem sure to become more than a lament for a departed political giant. They are likely to become a debate about political morality and the comportment and principles expected of public figures in an already polarized political age that has been further roiled by Trump’s disruptive influence.To many, the knowledge that McCain had effectively barred the president from his own funeral spoke volumes about the current, vehemently partisan battleground in Congress and the juxtaposition between a man who,starting from his days in military service, served his country honorably and another man who, considering the near-daily revelations from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, could very well be remembered as a traitor to the republic could not be more clear.To the entire @GOP: John McCain, in his death, is still trying to speak to you. He is having President Obama speak at his funeral. Donald Trump is to stay away. You all should be ashamed of yourselves for completely destroying what he fought for.— Carol Murray (@dixiecrl7) August 26, 2018One of John McCains final wishes was that Donald Trump not attend his funeral. The man who will be remembered in the history books as a great American hero didnt want a man who will be remembered as a traitor to our country to disgrace his funeral.— Ryan Knight  (@ProudResister) August 26, 2018	Liberal
Senator John McCain passed away today after a long battle with glioblastoma. He was 81.McCain’s death comes shortly after his family announced that he’d made the decision to discontinue medical treatment.“Last summer, Senator John McCain shared with Americans the news our family already knew: he had been diagnosed with an aggressive glioblastoma, and the prognosis was serious. In the year since, John has surpassed expectations for his survival. But the progress of disease and the inexorable advance of age render their verdict. With his usual strength of will, he has now chosen to discontinue medical treatment,” the veteran senator’s family said in a statement, adding:Our family is immensely grateful for the support and kindness of all his caregivers over the last year, and for the continuing outpouring of concern and affection from John’s many friends and associates, and the many thousands of people who are keeping him in their prayers. God bless and thank you all.McCain’s wife, Cindy, and daughter Meghan (a political commentator who is a co-host onThe View) posted additional statements on Twitter.I love my husband with all of my heart. God bless everyone who has cared for my husband along this journey. pic.twitter.com/v27sEbboii— Cindy McCain (@cindymccain) August 24, 2018My family is deeply appreciative of all the love and generosity you have shown us during this past year. Thank you for all your continued support and prayers. We could not have made it this far without you – you've given us strength to carry on. pic.twitter.com/KuAQSASoa7— Meghan McCain (@MeghanMcCain) August 24, 2018The loss of McCain is felt in every corner of Washington; he was a key voice within the Republican Party and established himself as a powerful voice in the Senate for his ability to negotiate deals in an increasingly partisan environment, often distinguishing himself his push against fossil fuel dependency and for comprehensive bipartisan immigration reform.McCain, who was criticized for shying away from the latter issue during election years, later earned distinction within the bipartisan Gang of Eight, a group of senators who tried to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill in 2013. The bill passed the House but ultimately failed in the Senate.McCain ran for president twice. The first time, in 2000, he suspended his campaign and endorsed George W. Bush, who ended up winning the election. In 2008, after announcing he’d run for president again, he selectedGovernor Sarah Palinof Alaska to be his vice presidential running mate. He would later lose the general election to Barack Obama.Although McCain was a frequent critic of President Trump, many have noted that he did, despite his opposition, confirm many of the president’s Cabinet and judicial appointments.The relationship between the two men was notoriously contentious and in 2015, Trump, then a presidential candidate, infamously said that McCain, a veteran of the armed forces who was a prisoner-of-war in Vietnam, was “not a war hero.”He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who werent captured,” Trump said at the time. McCain, in response, mocked Trump’s multiple draft deferments,pointingto wealthy Americans who were able to get out of being drafted into service.McCain has been awarded the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, the Legion of Merit, a Purple Heart and the Distinguished Flying Cross for his military service.McCain used his experience as a prisoner-of-war to urge the Senate toreject Gina Haspels nomination to be the director of the CIA. The senior senator cited Haspelsrefusal in testimony to acknowledge tortures immorality.Haspels nomination has been controversial. President Trump tapped her for the CIA position, sparking an outcry over her involvement in the George W. Bush administrations interrogation program after 9/11. Haspel has been criticized for using torture during her career at the CIA and for destroying evidence of such torture. Despite this opposition, Haspel was confirmed anyway.The White House found itself engulfed in scandal shortly afterward when former White House aide Kelly Sadler made disparaging comments about McCain and his cancer diagnosis.Sadler made headlines after she said that Senator McCains opposition to Gina Haspels nomination for CIA director because hes dying anyway.The White House, through a spokesperson, did not dispute the remark. The official said, We respect Senator McCains service to our nation, and he and his family are in our prayers during this difficult time.Another White House officialsaidSadler,who is in charge of surrogate communications, meant it as a joke, but it fell flat.	Liberal
On Tuesday, President Donald Trump’s longtime personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen entered a plea deal with federal prosecutors which implicated the President as an unindicted co-conspirator. As a result,several Democratic Senators voiced their intention to not meet with Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, or voiced concerns about continuing the appointment process.Now they made their objections formal.All 10 Democratic members of the Senate Judiciary Committee submitted a letter to committee chair Republican Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa. In it they cite Senate Rule XXVI (3) which governs committee procedures.The full letter can be seen at the end of this article.All 10 @JudiciaryDems: Given the possibility of criminal wrongdoing by the President, doubts that Judge Kavanaugh believes a president can even be investigated, and the unprecedented lack of transparency regarding this nominees record, we should not move forward with hearings.” pic.twitter.com/gCmbz661pV Vanita Gupta (@vanitaguptaCR) August 24, 2018In a previous letter to Grassley dated August 16, three of the committee members questioned the lack of documents being released. “We have repeatedly expressed our serious concerns about the unprecedented lack of transparency and partisan process that is being used to hide Brett Kavanaughs record from the Senate Judiciary Committee, the Senate as a whole, and the American people,” the letter begins.They then contrast the records made available for Kavanaughless than 3 percentversus the confirmation process for President Barack Obama pick Elena Kaganwhere 99 percent of records were released.The August 16 letter then refers to potential lies by Kavanaugh during his 2006 confirmation hearing that his full records would substantiate or repudiate. Limited recordspublicly available on the Bush Library websiteindicate Kavanaugh did not tell the truth during his 2006 Senate Judiciary hearing to become a Circuit Court Judge.In this latest letter dated August 24, they raised the lack of transparency again. The letter begins:“Over the past several weeks, we have voiced our concern about the decision to rush Brett Kavanaughs nomination through the Committee without allowing Senators or the American people to review his record.”“We are now writing to request a special meeting of the Committee under Senate Rule XXVI(3) to discuss the process being used to consider this nomination and requests for relevant documents.”However, in addition to the blocks placed on documents related to Kavanaugh’s prior federal service, the 10 Senators raised another concern. In light of the President’s former lawyer implicating him as an unindicted co-conspirator in a federal criminal case, the Democrats of the Judiciary Committee questioned Trump’s fitness to nominate another judge for a lifetime appointment.Of the President’s own public record, they stated:“Over a dozen of the Presidents Cabinet members and senior aides have resigned, been fired, or withdrawn as a result of corruption, scandal, and allegations of criminal misconduct. Then on Tuesday, the Presidents former campaign manager was convicted on eight criminal charges, for which he now faces up to eighty years in prison.”“Equally stunning, the Presidents personal lawyer Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to eight criminal counts and stated, under oath, that the President directed him to commit a federal crime by violating campaign finance law.”“The lack of due diligence that candidate and President Trump has displayed in selecting advisors and judicial nominees should give every Senator pause. This nominee is being considered for a lifetime appointment to the highest court in the country.”“If confirmed, he will have the opportunity to rule on issues of critical importance to all Americans for the next several decades. He may also be called upon to decide whether this President should face investigation or possible indictment for criminal wrongdoing.”Kavanaugh concerned many after it was revealed he once wrote a law review article titled Separation of Powers where he titled the first section, in all caps:“PROVIDE SITTING PRESIDENTS WITH A TEMPORARY DEFERRAL OF CIVIL SUITS AND OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS”In the article, Kavanaugh reasoned because being President took up a lot of time, a sitting President should never face an investigation or the consequences of any illegal activities while in office. The Senate Judiciary Committee Democrats addressed this issue as well in the following passage.	Liberal
President Donald Trump broke off denuclearization talks with North Korea on Friday, firing off a series of tweets in which he blamed friction with China for a lack of “sufficient progresswith respect to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.”“I have asked Secretary of State Mike Pompeo not to go to North Korea, at this time,” the president wrote, “because I feel we are not making sufficient progress with respect to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.”I have asked Secretary of State Mike Pompeo not to go to North Korea, at this time, because I feel we are not making sufficient progress with respect to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 24, 2018Trump said that because of his “much tougher Trading stance with China,” he does “not believe they are helping with the process of denuclearization.”…Additionally, because of our much tougher Trading stance with China, I do not believe they are helping with the process of denuclearization as they once were (despite the UN Sanctions which are in place)…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 24, 2018The president concluded his proclamation with praise for North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, sending his “warmest regards” and “respect.”I look forward to seeing him soon!…Secretary Pompeo looks forward to going to North Korea in the near future, most likely after our Trading relationship with China is resolved. In the meantime I would like to send my warmest regards and respect to Chairman Kim. I look forward to seeing him soon!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 24, 2018This is, of course, a total reversal from Trump’s numerous assertions that North Korea no longer poses a nuclear threat. pic.twitter.com/CwLZU2fXqZ— Gobblert in NC (@freetimeectomy) August 24, 2018You told the American people we no longer had to worry about North Korea! #TrumpIsAPathologicalLiar and we can't believe anything he says! You knew the DPRK would NEVER DENUCLEARIZE! #WeDontBelieveYou #TrumpIsATraitor— brightmyer (@bobbirightmyer) August 24, 2018The president appears to be reaping the consequences of his metastisizing trade war with China, on whom Trump has levied hundreds of billions of dollars worth of tariffs since this past spring. China has imposed retaliatory tariffs on exports from the United States.The resulting deterioration in American-Chinese relations, for which Trump is responsible, according to Trump, has left China with little reason to cooperate in the effort to denuclearize North Korea.Social media tore into the president because really, he should have seen this coming.This is why “previous presidents did not start a trade war with China.”So I hope now you understand why previous presidents did not start a trade war with China. They were not dumb nor weak as you like to say. They were strategic. A concept that eludes you.— Ange (@civilagain) August 24, 2018So, your sanctions are raising costs to the American consumer, leaving American farmers products languishing in warehouses, and now are contributing to an increasingly dangerous situation in N Korea. #somuchwinning— a dub (@annaloueezy) August 24, 2018Get him out— crazy lady (@crazymeinnyc) August 24, 2018So much for an “easy to win trade war,” huh.So, your trade war which you claimed would be easy to win is having detrimental effects? Not only are prices rising here, but the unintended effect trade war has on international interests, such as diplomacy with North Korea. Interesting admission.— Cassandra Healey (@CassandraHeale1) August 24, 2018Hows your tough stance on China working out? You know, one of our biggest trading partners? Im sure thats going great for businesses all over the US— MelZ (@mel_tab) August 24, 2018Others felt Trump canceling talks with North Korea was just an attempt at distraction from the disastrous legal week the president has had.You knew China wasn't helping! This was another of your distractions! #TrumpIsAPathologicalLiar #WeDontBelieveYou #FollowTheTrumpMoney #TrumpIsATraitor #DonaldIsScared #MuellerIsComingForYouDonald— brightmyer (@bobbirightmyer) August 24, 2018	Liberal
George Conway, the husband of presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway, is at it again.Despite being married to one of the president’s staunchest supportersthis is the same woman, by the way, who coined the term “alternative facts”Conway has made it very clear that he is no fan of President Donald Trump’s, and he made this very clear with his most recent tweets.Conway, at one point, quoted CNN legal analyst Renato Mariotti, who explained what the decision of federal prosecutors to grant immunity to Trump Organization CFO Alan Weisselberg means for the continuing investigation.“It means that Individual-1 needs a real lawyer,” Conway quipped.It means that Individual-1 needs a real lawyer. https://t.co/p95SJcqGxC— George Conway (@gtconway3d) August 24, 2018Conway also saidsarcasticallythat Trump’s inclination to attack AG Jeff Sessions on Twitter but not acknowledge the issues he has with him when he sees Sessions in person, amounts to a “profile in courage.”profile in courage https://t.co/XDIGHQ97M2— George Conway (@gtconway3d) August 24, 2018Conway also quoted Trump himself, saying that the nation would benefit from having a leader “capable of comprehending what it means to ‘take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.”What everyone should want, and the country needs, is a President capable of comprehending what it means to take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.  Art. II,  3. https://t.co/V80OUR6Z7O— George Conway (@gtconway3d) August 24, 2018That last tweet, in particular, earned a response from CNN national security analyst Sam Vinograd who wondered what “kind of statement” the State Department would issue regarding “respect for the rule of law.”Imagine, for a moment, that @StateDept @WhiteHouse saw this occurring in a foreign country. We have seen attempts for a head of state to interfere in his/ her legal system, in fact, in other countries. What kind of statement would @StateDept issue re: respect for the rule of law?— Sam Vinograd (@sam_vinograd) August 24, 2018Conway’s response was sobering.They might say nothing, because they might perceive that the system was so strong, its checks and balances so robust, that the president is reduced to lamely tweeting insults at his attorney general, with no effect other than to continue to erode his own moral authority.— George Conway (@gtconway3d) August 24, 2018This is far from the first time that Conway has posted material or commentary critical of the president, and people ate up his latest jabs at the president.In the spring, heposted polling results indicating support for a challenge to Trump in 2020.I feel like he is trying to save his wife by getting her fired.— LA Johnson (@Lovlee8) August 24, 2018You are invited to our house for cocktails and baseball any time you are in LA, George.— Molly Knight (@molly_knight) August 24, 2018Hi Mr. George Conway, how are you so different from your other half ? #KellyanneConway https://t.co/njURXtVHbc— LLeigh_Laura (@LeighNYC_Laura) August 24, 2018Thank you, George, for being the adult in the room. — Deborah L Phillips (@dprnesq) August 24, 2018If someone told me Kellyanns Husband would become an unsung hero of the resistance, I would have been shocked— Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) August 24, 2018What do you and your wife talk about over dinner? Love can overcome a lot of things, but I don't think there is any kind of love that could keep me in a relationship with someone who lies for Trump daily. I feel badly for you.— Marie (@celtic_traveler) August 24, 2018It all began when Haley Byrd, a reporter forThe Weekly Standard, tweeted poll results highlighted in an article titled How Conservatives Can Win Back Young Americans. She highlighted the following statistic:An incredible 82 percent of Republican and Republican-leaning voters between the ages of 18 and 24 say they want another Republican to challenge President Trump for the partys nomination in 2020. So do 57 percent of those aged 25 to 34 and 58 percent of those aged 35 to 44. Compare that number with the 74 percent of Republicans over the age of 65 who oppose a primary challenge, and youve got a chasm the size of the Grand Canyon.The Trump divide here tells you everything you need to know about the current age dynamics of the Republican Party, she wrote, noting that the poll found that 82 percent of GOP voters between 18 and 24 say the president should be challenged in the 2020 general election and that 74 percent of GOP voters aged 65 and older say otherwise.The Trump divide here tells you everything you need to know about the current age dynamics of the Republican Party. Q: Should Trump be challenged in 2020?Among GOP voters aged 18-24, 82% say yesAmong GOP voters aged 65 and older, 74% say no  https://t.co/D0f2pXA7AP pic.twitter.com/QNmy6zJDYz— Haley Byrd (@byrdinator) May 10, 2018Conway quote-tweeted Byrds message and added other age brackets.ages 25-34: 57% yes ages 35-44: 58% yes, he wrote, suggesting that its more than just millennials who want the president out of office in 2020.Later in the day, Conway tweeted aNew York Timesstory criticizing Trumps attorney Rudy Giuliani after Giuliani claimed that hush money payments were common at the firm he just resigned from, a statement he made in defense of ex-Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, who this week pleaded guiltytoeight criminal counts, including five charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraud. Cohen said that he made the payments at Trumps behest to buy the silence of two women with whom Trump had had affairs and influence the election.	Liberal
Former President Jimmy Carter isn’t known to jump to public criticism. The retired peanut farmer has mostly focused on working with Habitat for Humanity and enjoying retirement.However, in a recent interview withThe Washington Post, Carter didn’t mince words when discussing the current president:I think hes a disaster In human rights and taking care of people and treating people equal.His wife, former First Lady Rosalynn Carter, concurred:The worst is that he is not telling the truth, and that just hurts everything.ThePostarticle highlighted the differences in lifestyle between the two presidents, noting the stark contrast of Carter’s modest ranch to Donald Trump’s infamous gold-plated properties which, to many, invoke King Midas more than a president. Carter alluded to this as well when discussing the current emphasis on wealth overtaking American culture, lamenting that “Money is now preeminent. I mean, its just gone to hell now.”Many on Twitter noted Carter’s usual hesitation to criticize so publicly.Dude, when a man of grace like President Carter calls you a disaster…… that pretty bad! #VoteCoyote2020!!!— Tammy Horn (@laughing_coyote) August 24, 2018He has honor, compassion, and I agree that I don't think he has ever criticised someone or at least publicly. It is bad when this kind man says DT is a disaster.— Psylocke, PhD, MPH, MSW (@AmaClete) August 23, 2018You're fucking crazy.  The nicest man in the world, Jimmy Carter, said today that you're a disaster as president.— AbbyNormalSomeone (@TellTaleHeart45) August 21, 2018They also noted Carter’s reputation for decency as a whole–another difference between him and the current president.Jimmy Carter is everything that can be good in America, @realDonaldTrump is everything that is bad in America— Al Barney (@albarney) August 21, 2018Jimmy Carter practices Jesus Christs teaching, sooo much better then, Gay-bashing, Gun-celebrating @realDonaldTrump -Christians….. He is my Hero!— Mikael Stenlund (@RobberMikeSwede) August 17, 2018Jimmy Carter is the antithesis of Donald Trump.— Dave's Not Alex Jones (@Daves_n0t_here) August 20, 2018Donald Trump's should dream of ever being half the man Jimmy Carter is.— Carolyn Phillips (@Carolyn091550) August 20, 2018While Carter’s statements inThe Washington Postrepresent his most direct criticisms of the president, they’re not his first.	Liberal
On Friday, news broke that federal prosecutors in New York granted immunity for Trump Organization Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Allen Weisselberg in a case they are working on involving Michael Cohen. Cohen worked for years as President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer and fixer.Earlier in the week, Cohen pleaded guilty to eight separate charges. According to Cohen’s lawyer Lanny Davis, the plea deal implicated Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator.In response to both revelations, Tony Schwartz took to Twitter Friday to predict the end is near. He posted:“The other shoe has dropped  the smoking gun equivalent to Nixons tapes. Alan[sic] Weisselberg knows everything. Trump will resign as I always assumed. Only matter of time now.”The other shoe has dropped  the smoking gun equivalent to Nixons tapes. Alan Weisselberg knows everything. Trump will resign as I always assumed. Only matter of time now. Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) August 24, 2018Later that same day, Schwartz also offered a solemn and ominous warning regarding the President’s possible reaction.“Trump will be at his most dangerous and unstable in the weeks and months ahead. Drowning, he will want to take as many of us down with him as he can. He should never have had access to the nuclear codes but especially not now.”Trump will be at his most dangerous and unstable in the weeks and months ahead. Drowning, he will want to take as many of us down with him as he can. He should never have had access to the nuclear codes but especially not now. Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) August 24, 2018But who is Tony Schwartz and what does he know about Trump?According to a speech Schwartz gave in 2016, Tony Schwartz made a decision in the mid 1980s to “write a book with a brash, young, moderately successful real estate developer who was mostly unknown outside the United States.”The unknown developer was Donald Trump. The book became the bestselling Art of the Deal which propelled Trump’s public profile to new heights.Trump often refers to the book as “his proudest achievement.”Announcing his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination in June 2015, Donald Trump stated:“We need a leader that wrote The Art of the Deal.”Since then, Schwartz expressed deep regret for writing the book. Both he and the book’s publisher maintain Trump contributed no words on paper to the book, nor did he proofread it. Schwartz penned it all based on interviews conducted with Trump and access granted to Trump Organization files and business associates.I wrote the book start to finish … and have said so countless times over the past two years Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) April 20, 2018If Art of the Deal made Donald Trump, then so did Tony Schwartz by extension. Schwartz eventually donated his profits and royalties from the book to different charities as his own form of penance.Just gave $55,000 in latest Art of Deal royalties to coalition of anti-hate organizations. What is Trump doing with his royalties? Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) October 4, 2016His regret for elevating Trump from local developer to international renown is something Schwartz remains quite vocal about with Friday’s tweet being just the latest to address Trump the man, his candidacy and then his presidency.Schwartz began issuing warnings back in 2016 about the man he spent months studying and interviewing in the 1980’s.Trump thinks it serves America for him to be up tweeting at 3 am? How about reading a book instead? How about sleeping, so you’re rested? Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) September 30, 2016Trump actually believes he is a victim? Make no mistake: he is a victimizer, exploiting supporters who, like him, want someone to blame. Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) October 16, 2016Schwartz claimed before the 2016 presidential election that Trump lies and demands those around him also lie constantly. After the election he stated the same in his Twitter posts, like the following examples.	Liberal
Fox Business host Neil Cavuto torched President Donald Trump Thursday night, asking the Commander-In-Chief:“What good is it to fatten your wallet if youve lost your soul?Check out Neil's latest Common Sense https://t.co/VYe1fr1ru7— Neil Cavuto (@TeamCavuto) August 23, 2018On his showCommon Sense, Cavuto railed against Trump after an interview the president gave in which he predicted the economy would tank if he ends up getting impeached.Trump told Ainsley Earhardt of Fox News on Thursday that “everybody would be poor” if he were to be removed from office.“If I ever got impeached, I think the market would crash, I think everybody would be very poor, the president said. Trump then pointed at his head and said:because without this thinking, you would see numbers that you wouldnt believe, in reverse.”Cavuto has had it with the president putting himself above the country and using the economy as a means of distracting from his personal scandals.“Making money should never get in the way of simply getting answers. You dont prevent a constitutional crisis by threatening a financial one. But, Mr.President, you guarantee both when your very actions and words create that crisis or make people think that youre hiding one.”Cavuto referenced Trump’s pretzeling narrative over hush money payments he made to two women before the 2016 election, for which his former attorney Michael Cohen has pleaded guilty to multiple federal felonies. The Fox News host said Trump’s changing story is the real problem.“What good is it to fatten your wallet if youve lost your soul? If you forget your friends and you embolden your enemies?You are right to say that some are out to get you, but often times, Mr. President, the problem is you: what you say, and how you keep changing what you say.”Cavuto noted the successes of the economy but cautioned that Trump’s constant lying and unpresidential behavior are taking away from what should be a triumphant period of his presidency.“None of these make the market any less impressive, maybe just the guy overseeing it all,” Cavuto said. “President, youre that guy, youre both those guys. And youre right to be frustrated, but you are part of whats frustrating.”Cavuto said Trumpholding the economy hostage “cheapens your argument” and “cheapens this country.”Cavuto ended by airing his frustration over Trump’s amoral behavior, including his accusations that the press is engaging in “fake news.”“I know you’ll call this fake, but the implications of what you’re doing, Mr. President, are very real,” Cavuto warned Trump. “You are so darned focused on promoting a financial boom that you fail to see that you are the one creating this moral bust. And we could all be the poorer for it.”Social media blew up with reactions to Cavuto, whose reputation as a Trump supporter has preceded him.Well damn, Neil Cavuto just brought Truth to the White House doorstep like a Church Lady with a basket of "How ya doin" muffins.— Kupo (@MoogleKittyGirl) August 24, 2018I love how with Donald Trump to tell him off you have to compliment & fluff him first, then explain with a smile on your face or he won't understand the words coming out of your mouth, that he's a complete gas bag. It's a word labyrinth, Neil Cavuto gets it. Grin, then give it.— Kupo (@MoogleKittyGirl) August 24, 2018Wow. wow. America will prevail if we have more insight like that. pic.twitter.com/9Wcse4BBTz— G Moneyboy (@gmonett) August 24, 2018Sir I disagree with you on a lot of stuff but this particular video you hit the nail on the head thanks— Ernest B. (@easy_b94) August 24, 2018A couple Trump fans tried to come for Cavuto.	Liberal
CNN host Chris Cuomo and Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway butted heads Thursday night in a contentious interview on Cuomo’s show.In addition to NFL protests and President Donald Trump’s numerous scandals, the two argued over the White House’s statements regarding the murder of Mollie Tibbetts, whose killer–Cristhian Bahena Rivera–is believed to be an undocumented immigrant.The White House has not shied away from exploiting Tibbetts’s death for their own political advantage.Donald Trump recently posted a video on Twitter in which he lamented that the “incredible young woman, is now permanently separated from her family.” The president’s odd word choice was taken by many as an attempt by Trump to use Tibbetts’s death to justify his widely-abhorred policy of separating undocumented familiesattempting to cross the Southern border.pic.twitter.com/wYCNmkkaNR— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2018The White House released another video in which it blames undocumented immigrants for family separation, once again invoking Tibbetts’s murder.For 34 days, investigators searched for 20-year-old Mollie Tibbetts. Yesterday, an illegal alien, now charged with first-degree murder, led police to the cornfield where her body was found.  The Tibbetts family has been permanently separated. They are not alone. pic.twitter.com/BBskwHEJoU— The White House (@WhiteHouse) August 22, 2018With these statements in mind, Cuomo confronted Conway directly, accusing the White House of “hijacking her grief.”Stop giving Kellyanne Conway any airtime. All she wants to do is spew garbage, but kudos to @ChrisCuomo for standing up to her nonsense anyway, especially this part about Mollie Tibbetts. pic.twitter.com/4JAT7ggCvq— Zack Ford (@ZackFord) August 24, 2018After Conway said “God rest her soul” referring to Tibbetts, Cuomo shot back:“You’re not letting her soul rest, you’re waving her like a flag!”Many on Twitter approved:Guess @KellyannePolls thought she was talking with soulless maggot @TuckerCarlson when she unashamedly defended Trumps indefensible exploitation of #MollieTibbetts murder. @ChrisCuomo explicitly called her out though.  https://t.co/NVOIjl3yCi— Sean Huze (@seanhuze) August 24, 2018Chris Cuomo is eating Kellyanne Conways liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti on #CNN right now.— Aaron T. Starks  (@StarkyLuv73) August 24, 2018Cuomo to Conway: You're hijacking griefCuomo to Conway: You're hijacking griefhttps://t.co/Q1BctA7rcA @KellyannePolls Kellyanne you are ridiculous.  You are embarrassing women by your defending this ugly, evil fake President. Your attempts to defend Trump are laughable.— DS (@dshepherd62) August 24, 2018This, this, a thousand times this!—  WeRTheSquirrels  (@WeRTheSquirrels) August 24, 2018What’s more, Tibbetts’s family and friends have spoken out againstthe White House and others using her death at the hands of one man to vilify immigrants everywhere.Breck Goodman, a friend of Tibbetts, said at a vigil in Iowa:I also know what Mollie stood for … and she would not approve. So I dont want her death to be used as propaganda. I dont want her death to be used for more prejudice and for more discrimination, and I dont think she would want that, either.Cuomo’s ire echoes the feelings of Tibbetts’s own family, members of whom have spoken out against the exploitation of her death by conservatives. Tibbetts’ssecond cousin took to Twitter on Tuesday criticizing conservative commentator Candace Owens for her statements on the Democrats’ reaction to Tibbetts’s death.hey im a member of mollies family and we are not so fucking small-minded that we generalize a whole population based on some bad individuals. now stop being a fucking snake and using my cousins death as political propaganda. take her name out of your mouth. https://t.co/xxZNBF0Uv9— sam (@samlucasss) August 22, 2018Their arguments have been bolstered by the resurfacing of many liberal tweets from Tibbetts herself.	Liberal
In an exclusive Fox News interview Thursday, indicted California Republican Representative Duncan Hunter called his campaign finance law violations charges “pure politics.” However, as the discussion with hostMartha MacCallum on The Story continued, Hunter implicated his wife Margaret as solely responsible for any financial impropriety that occurred.The couple painted a rosy picture on their social media accounts, often shown traveling together. But it’s those trips at the heart of the allegations against the couple.The indictment against Duncan Hunter and his wife charged them with illegally converting $250,000 in campaign funds for personal expenses and falsifying records to cover it up.BREAKING: GOP Rep. Duncan Hunter and wife were just indicted for charges related to misusing campaign money for personal expenses and filing of fraudulent campaign finance records. They are charged with wire fraud, falsifying records, campaign finance violations and conspiracy. Scott Dworkin (@funder) August 21, 2018And that’s where Hunter points the finger squarely at his wife, invoking his military service when he did.“When I went away to Iraq in 2003, the first time, I gave her power of attorney. She handled my finances throughout my entire military career and that continued on when I got into Congress… She was also the campaign manager so whatever she did, thatll be looked at too, Im sure, but I didnt do it.”Watch the interview here:Incredible interview with @RepDuncanHunter on Fox News.1. He throws his wife under the bus2. Sweaty3. Defensive4. Without question, he lies many times5. Calls his opponent a “socialist Democrat” after his opponent says that Hunter lost his way in Washington. pic.twitter.com/o8tbezjvPn Yashar Ali ?? (@yashar) August 24, 2018Hunter maintains that although he knows his campaign broke the law, it was never him.“My campaign did make mistakes. There was money spent on things, not by me but by the campaign, and I paid that back before my last election. I paid back $60,000 dollars after I did an objective audit. This is pure politics.”Hunter also took the time to attack his Democratic opponent, Ammar Campa-Najjar.But when Campa-Najjar appeared on the Fox News program Your Worldwith Neil Cavuto, he remained far more charitable to Hunter. The Democratic candidate stated his Republican rival was an honorable man who “lost his way” in Washington DC.“I was just talking to my pastor about how I should confront this issue. And, first, I just want to say that Congressman Duncan Hunter honorably served our country abroad. He fought the battles that we wage abroad, so someone like me could have the luxury to fight the ones we have here at home.”“But I think that man who served our country never made it back from the battlefield. And I think Washington chewed him up and spat him out, and he lost his way.”I’ll be on @FoxNews & @MSNBC today talking about what @Rep_Hunter‘s indictment means for the future.Now’s the time to put country over party. To explore unity, not exploit division. And fight against corruption.As one voter said, “we don’t need a Hunter, we need a gatherer.” pic.twitter.com/xXKsk0VoBB Ammar Campa (@ACampaNajjar) August 22, 2018However reactions on social media to Hunter’s willingness to blame his wife received less friendly reponses as the following reactions show.	Liberal
A fifth-generation coal miner from Virginia tore into President Donald Trump’s stance on energy and the environment in a New York Times Op-Ed video published Tuesday. Nick Mullins told the president that despite his campaign promises:coal mining isn’t coming back and it’s time to get real about it.Mullins runs a blog called The Thoughtful Coal Miner.In his message to Trump, Mullins said he is a “fifth-generation coal miner” and a “ninth-generation Appalachian” who worked in the coal industry for “four years.” Mullins described the work as “dangerous” and having “long-term health impacts.”Trump has made coal miners and mining a focal point of his presidency, promising to “bring back coal” despite declines in demand and the health and environmental damage caused by coal.Listen to a coal miner tell Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackThis is the hope I needed today!https://t.co/ywOnEcqCcH via @YouTube @nytimes— Julia Midnight Sun (@JuliaFBXLawRpt) August 23, 2018Mullins said Trump made “false promises” that are “only going to line the pockets of coal executives while delaying the inevitable” collapse of the coal industry.Last November, the president proudly tweeted that coal production had increased during his first year in office.It is finally happening for our great clean coal miners! https://t.co/suAnjs6Ccz— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 2, 2017“If Trump really wants to help Appalachian communities that support him,” Mullins reasoned, “lowering emissions standards is not the way to do it.”Mullins said the coal industry “has never been on the side of the coal miner,” because companies who “built cultures” around coal did so “without regard for our safety.”Has anyone ever met a "HEALTHY" coal miner?— Mary Villalba (@estre68132) August 22, 2018He listed a few examples of the struggles faced by miners for Trump to consider.“We’re still having to fight for things like black lung benefits, workers compensation, and disability from injuries in the mines,” Mullins noted. He added that even though mining towns have a reputation for being “conservative places, the majority of Appalachia’s coal-producingcounties voted for Al Gore” in the 2000 election.Thank u for posting this article nick. I am a coal miners grand-daughter, daughter & spouse. Coal is NOt coming back & I wish more people would just do the simple research & understand this simple truth.— Stacey (@Staceymoon52) August 22, 2018Mullins said despite promises of labor protections by Democrats, “economic desperation” has “driven them to vote otherwise,” and those miners who support Trump are in a fight to “defend ourselves against liberal stereotypes that we’re unintelligent deplorables.”Thank you for your video message. I hope it helps people understand the truth.— Elizabeth Gaucher (@ElizGaucher) August 22, 2018Trump’s own EPA concluded in August, however, that the president’s Affordable Clean Energy Rule, which grants states the right to set their own emissions standards, “result in up to 1,400 more premature deaths a year as of 2030.”CNN noted:By the same year, the Obama administration’sClean Air Plan, which the new rule will replace, would have avoided 3,600 premature deaths due to pollution from coal-fired power plants.Thank you Nick.— Ohio Buckeye Girl (@coalBUCKETLIST) August 22, 2018Mullins then turned his attention to one of Trump’s favorite taglines: “clean coal.”	Liberal
The Manhattan district attorneys office is considering charging the Trump Organizationand two senior company officials “in connection with Michael D. Cohens hush money payment to an adult film actress,” according to two officials with knowledge on the matter who spoke toThe New York Times.The report continues:A state investigation would center on how the company accounted for its reimbursement to Mr. Cohen for the $130,000 he paid to the actress, Stephanie Clifford, who has said she had an affair with President Trump, the officials said.Both officials stressed that the offices review of the matter is in its earliest stages and prosecutors have not yet made a decision on whether to proceed.State charges against the company or its executives could be significant because Mr. Trump has talked about pardoning some of his current or former aides who have faced federal charges. As president, he has no power to pardon people and corporate entities convicted of state crimes.The Trump Organization’s records list the reimbursement as a legal expense. Earlier this week, however, while pleading guiltytoeight criminal countsfive charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraudCohen said that he made the payments at Trumps behest to buy Clifford’s silence and influence the election.Federal prosecutors say the reimbursement payments “were for sham legal invoices in connection with a nonexistent retainer agreement,” according to theTimes.TheNew York State attorney generals office has announced it will opena criminal investigation into whether Mr. Cohen has violated state tax law. This investigation will be unrelated to the federal tax evasion charges he pleaded guilty to earlier this week. (Prosecutors said he had unlawfully avoided more than $1.4 million in federal income taxes.)Attorney General Barbara Underwood hassought a referral from the state Department of Taxation and Finance, according to a person familiar with the matter. That referral is necessary to conduct an investigation and to prosecute any violations of state tax law.“Such requests are rarely denied,” theTimes notes. “The states double jeopardy laws do not apply to tax crimes.”The district attorney’s office has reviewed court paperwork outliningthe campaign finance charges and other federal crimes to which Cohen pleaded guilty and they “provide some details about how two Trump Organization executives handled the reimbursement and recorded them as legal fees.” Manhattan prosecutors are reviewing business records to determine if they were falsified and if they were, that could be charged as a low-level felony or a misdemeanor.“Its a misdemeanor for a person or company to make a false entry in a business record or cause one to be made, with intent to defraud,” theTimes observes. “It becomes a felony if it is done to commit or conceal another crime.”In an interview on Fox & Friends” on Wednesday, President Donald Trump claimed that he knew about payments Cohen made to silence Stephanie Clifford (better known as Stormy Daniels)andPlayboymodel Karen McDougalbut says that these payments did not come from campaign coffers and thus do not constitute a campaign finance violation.Later on I knew, later on, Trump told Foxs Ainsley Earhardt. But you have to understand Ainsley, what he [Cohen] did, and they werent taken out of campaign finance. Thats a big thing, thats a much bigger thing, Did they come out of the campaign? and they didnt come out of the campaign, they came from me, and I tweeted about it. I dont know if you know but I tweeted about the payments.EXCLUSIVE: President @realDonaldTrump on if he knew about the Cohen payments. See more from his interview with @ainsleyearhardt tomorrow 6-9amET. pic.twitter.com/HPJPslOG6X— FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) August 22, 2018Insisting once again that the payments did not come from the campaign, the president said that the first question he asked when he heard about the payments was, Did they come out of the campaign?Because that could be a little dicey, he added, and they didnt come out of the campaign and thats big, continuing: But they werentits not even a campaign violation. If you look at President [Barack] Obama, he had a massive campaign violation, but he had a different attorney general and they viewed it a lot differently.	Liberal
As President Donald Trump’s legal problems got worse and worse this week, his critics are reacting with glee. Among these is comedic actor Sacha Baron Cohen, famous for his outrageous characters and their interviews of unsuspecting targets.Today, Cohen took to Twitter, taunting the president and reviving a famous character of his: Ali G.pic.twitter.com/JqMLcROUie— Sacha Baron Cohen (@SachaBaronCohen) August 23, 2018The content mockingly commends Trump for everything from his business acumen to his endowment, reading:2 my main man President Ronald Trump, check out when you colluded wiv me a few years ago and u corrected all dem stupid fake news scientists who said dat humanoids have only been around for 300,000 years.Yesterday it was proven in de courts dat u iz a crook – respeck! U iz a genuine gangsta! And it turns out most of your crew are too innit (4 guilty so far). U iz de Suge Knight of world leaders innit.Also nuff respeck for bonin all dem pornstars – but why iz u payin dem money to keep quiet about it? We know it aint coz u haz got a tiny dong, u told everyone it woz massive on da telly, and one fing u ain’t, is a liar. Anyway, peace out, u iz a hinspiration for young people, showing dem u can become President of America without having to give up a life of crime. Bigupyaself O.G.Twitter was quick to applaud him for adding insult to Trump’s injury.Thank you, Sir! The last time you trolled politicians, you exposed the Tea Party and brought us President Obama. Please dont stop until this orange shitgibbon is harpooned by the National Guard. Gina Bradbury (@screaminggina) August 23, 2018@SachaBaronCohen is the King of all trolls! he has brought me to tears in laughter for years from the original Ali G show. ?? Alex Brown (@abrown248zero) August 23, 2018Legend apepsibath (@apepsibath) August 23, 2018They were also skeptical of Trump’s claim that humans have been around for hundreds of millions of years.Wait, 100M years ago? Scott Gillam (@firstnamescott) August 23, 2018Hundreds of millions of years ago?? Haha. Rocks. Hahaha.Btw doesn’t some of his #TrumpCult believers think the earth only to be about 6000 years old? They won’t be happy with this. Jina Jay (@thesecretdooruk) August 23, 2018‘Why don’t you ask them?’ Coz they ain’t alive bruv, dey was here hundreds of millions of years ago!! Paresh Damani (@KwoteMe) August 23, 2018HUGE years ago Jeremy Wonn (@jwonn44) August 23, 2018But isnt the earth only 6,000 years old? Michael Cimer (@MikeCimer) August 23, 2018And remembered other times when he’d trolled Trump.pic.twitter.com/9mxJ2HgTX6 Shawn Cochrane (@shawcochrane) August 23, 2018Cohenthe comedian, not the lawyer this timerecently created a stir in Washington, especially on the right, with Cohen’s latest series on Showtime,Who is America?. Disguising himself as various characters,Who is America?documents the incognito Cohen interviewing various politicians and activistsoften leading to their humiliation and, in at least one case, a resignation.The series has stoked a lot of anger from Republicans…	Liberal
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA) on Wednesday said the murder of 20-year-old college student Mollie Tibbetts presents an opportunity for Republicans because Tibbetts was killed by an immigrant from Mexico.In an email to Axios, Gingrich wrote that Democrats should worry about Tibbetts becoming a “household name” ahead of the midterm elections.“If Mollie Tibbetts is a household name by October, Democrats will be in deep trouble. If we can be blocked by Manafort-Cohen, etc., the GOP could lose [the House] badly,” Gingrich predicted.He added that if Democrats can seize on the drama surrounding Paul Manafort, Michael Cohen, and President Donald Trump, then Republicans can use Tibbett’s murder as a referendum on immigration.“We are livingin two alternative political universes,” Gingrich said. “In one, Manafort-Cohen is dispositive. In the other, illegal immigrants killing Mollie Tibbetts is dispositive.”Gingrich’s rank politicization of Tibbetts’s death comes her family pleads with conservative politicians not to use her death to score political points.hey im a member of mollies family and we are not so fucking small-minded that we generalize a whole population based on some bad individuals. now stop being a fucking snake and using my cousins death as political propaganda. take her name out of your mouth. https://t.co/xxZNBF0Uv9— sam (@samlucasss) August 22, 2018“I don’t want Mollie’s memory to get lost amongst politics,” Tibbetts’ aunt, Billie Jo Calderwood, told CNN. Tibbetts’ brother Jake said his family appreciates the outpouring of support but asks that their privacy is respected."She would not want this to be used as fuel against undocumented immigrants": Some of Mollie Tibbetts' family don't want her death politicized https://t.co/T8t7ubpSV1 pic.twitter.com/IE10rX4KET— CNN (@CNN) August 23, 2018“Remember this as a time that the country came together for one girl. One girl that loved everyone. One girl that loved everything and wanted the best for everyone. Don’t remember this as the time that someone made a very poor decision and took a girl away,” he said. “We’re going to miss her dearly but, to be honest, what made her so special is she was just like anyone standing here. She loved to run. She loved Harry Potter. She loved the hawks. She loved her family. She was goofy. She was clumsy.”Social media blew up with outrage at Gingrich’s comments:Disgusting and Disgraceful!  Mollies family has asked that her death not be politicized.  Respect their privacy, loss and grief!  @newtgingrich— Susan Hershey Smith (@SusanHershSmith) August 23, 2018Using the dead child of strangers to promote your cause is outrageous! I am the mother of a dead son who served 8 years in the 82nd Airborne and I talk about him because he was mine and his life is a lesson for others. I dont know what Id do if Newt used him as a campaign tool— Stephanie Keegan (@warsnotover) August 23, 2018 	Liberal
It is difficult to find someone who has not heard of Ancestry.com or 23andme” that offer to sequence parts of a persons genome. These services offer to search your genetic profile for information about your familys ethnic origins or the presence of certain factors that will increase your probability of being susceptible to certain diseases in your lifetime. It is doubtful that people who have purchased these products would have considered that their depositions of DNA in these databases has helped to capture criminals responsible for cold case murders dating back decades, but this is precisely what has recently occurred.To fully comprehend the significance of these recent developments in crime fighting and their inherent privacy concerns, one has to be familiar with the meaning behind certain terms like: genome, genetic material, genealogy, and DNA. DNA is the abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, which is the molecule inside of everyone that encodes the genetic information unique to each individual. A persons genome is the term ascribed to all the genetic information that is found inside of each of their cells. Having established a baseline understanding of the power of modern genetic techniques and databases, one can then begin to ponder the massive implications for these innovations.Throughout history, there have been criminal cases that have gone unsolved and frequently referred to as cold cases. Most cold cases involve murders where the perpetrator of these crimes has not been identified and brought to justice. Some famous cold cases include the identity of the murderer Jack the Ripper, the identity of Californias Original Night Stalker, the identity of the Zodiac Killer, and the fate of the D.B. Cooper hijacker. These high-profile cases barely scratch the surface of the number of unsolved cases that continue to wrangle law enforcement.It is exceedingly difficult to perpetrate a crime without leaving behind some forensic material that could be used to link the criminal to the crime scene. If the investigating authorities properly preserve samples collected from the scene of the crime, there will be genetic material that can assist in identifying the culprit. The science behind such forensic investigations is the basis of many popular police dramas such as CSI (Crime Scene Investigation). Moreover, there are private companies that now assist law enforcement by intentionally leaving behind unique synthetic DNA at potential crime scenes that can lead to the capture of perpetrators of burglaries and robberies who unknowingly become contaminated with the synthetic DNA.Recently, five cold cases were solved using the genetic databases that have progressively grown from these private companies offering genomic sequencing services. The first instance, which made headlines across the United States, was the arrest of Joseph James DeAngelo as the perpetrator of the Golden State Killer murders. DNA evidence collected from the crime scenes of 12 different murders attributed to the Golden State Killer was screened against the online databases generated from the genetic profiling services and a partial match was identified. It turns out that the partial match detected was to a family member of Mr. DeAngelo, whose participation in the genetic profiling service inadvertently led to the implication of their family member in the series of murders.More recently, scouring these genetic databases for possible matches has resulted in arrests in Washington state and Pennsylvania as well as provided possible clues to solving an unsolved Texas murder that is 37 years old. The Washington state case saw a nurse arrested for the 1986 rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl, where DNA extracted from semen at the crime scene was found to have partial matches with individuals whose genetic signatures had been uploaded to a website used for linking genetic ancestry. The Pennsylvania case also involved the rape and murder, this time a 25-year-old school teacher. The same genetic database led to the identification and arrest of a suspect in that cold case. Once again, the same genetic repository helped determine that the murderer of a 9-year-old child, who had already been convicted and executed for that crime, was also responsible for the unsolved murder of a 40-year-old woman in an area close by to the murder of the 9-year-old. All of these cases involved screening an open-source genetic ancestry website, the same website that was used to solve the Golden State Killer case.A genetic genealogist, Ms. Cece Moore, who works for a forensic consulting firm that has assisted adopted individuals in locating their biological parents, participated in the three aforementioned cases. She commented that there are so many parallels between hunting down criminals who left genetic clues at crime scenes to the search for family lineages in adoption cases. She used a database called GEDMatch, which is where the genetic information has been stored for people using services like 23andMe to have their DNA analyzed. She has also been involved in solving additional cold cases, including but not limited to: the identity of the murderer of an 8-year-old girl in Indiana, the identification of an unidentified man who committed suicide and finding the killer of a Canadian couple that was visiting the United States. Since the break in the Golden State Killer case using this repository of genetic information, GEDMatch has clarified their privacy policy to stipulate that they will permit law enforcement to screen peoples profiles in their efforts to bring individuals to justice in cases of sexual assault and murder.While these cases have captured the publics attention and law enforcement has been extolled for its ingenuity in solving these cold cases, important questions have been left unanswered. For instance, what individual or agency is responsible for informing relatives of the accused that their genetic profiles contributed to the capture of their family member?	Liberal
As seems to be the case with each passing year, California is facing wildfires of unprecedented number and severity  while many are still burning across the state, the Mendocino Complex fire alone is now the largest fire in California history, charring hundreds of thousands of acres and resulting in at least one firefighter fatality.With the need for firefighter labor greater than ever, the Golden State has been relying heavily on trained inmates  both men and women paying them just $2 a day, with a $1-per-hour bonus while actively fighting a blaze. Though this saves California about $80 million a year in labor costs, the utilization of prisoners for such high-risk work remains highly controversial.So much so, incarcerated prisoner-rights advocates announced Aug. 21 that theyre calling for a 19-day nationwide prison-labor strike, where prisoner-workers, including firefighters, will cease working to protest exploitative labor practices and poor prison conditions. No word yet on how or whether the strike will impact Californias wildfires, but many are predicting it could be one of the largest strikes in U.S. history.Any fire you go on statewide, whether it be small or large, the inmate hand crews make up anywhere from 50 to 80 percent of the total fire personnel, Lt. Keith Radey, a commander in charge of a camp where women firefighter inmates train, told The New York Times.Inmates with no history of arson, gang crimes, escape attempts, sexual crimes, kidnapping or escape are allowed to volunteer for firefighting programs. They then receive two to three weeks of training, in contrast to the civilian firefighters, who undergo a three-month apprenticeship and can earn up to $74,000 a year, plus benefits.Look, the biggest, most important thing is putting out the fires, Lisa Graybill, deputy legal director at Southern Poverty Law Center, told Newsweek. And in my experience, prisoners are so eager for the chance to work and chance to demonstrate their rehabilitation that theyll accept any work conditions. But they shouldnt be exploited by the state. Theyre putting their lives on the line like other California firefighters, and they should be paid fairly for a fair day’s work.Further, unlike other prison-work programs across the U.S., prisoners will likely not be able to apply their firefighting skills and experience once theyre released. According to Graybill, firefighters in California are required to become licensed emergency medical technicians, and being a convicted felon precludes one from obtaining a license. Also, it bears mentioning that the families of inmates who die in the line of duty dont receive the same benefits as those of non-inmate firefighters.Many people who are incarcerated have families on the outside who are relying on them to come home and be their breadwinner again. If anything does happen to them, will there be provision for their families and will they be taken care of in any way? Graybill said in a Newsweek interview.	Liberal
U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions defended the Justice Department after President Donald Trump criticized the agency’s performance under Sessions’ leadership.I took control of the Department of Justice the day I was sworn in, Sessions said in a statement, which is why we had unprecedented success at effectuating the President’s agendaone that protects the safety and security and rights of the American people, reduces violent crime, enforces our immigration laws, promotes economic growth, and advances religious liberty.”He added:While I am Attorney General, the actions of the Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations. I demand the highest standards, and where they are not met, I take action. However, no nation has a more talented, more dedicated group of law enforcement investigators and prosecutors than the United States.AG Jeff Sessions just released a statement defending law enforcement investigators under him and says he will fight against improper political influence. We should hold him and the rest of the administration accountable to this standard. pic.twitter.com/5zW8sBJap1— Stand Up Republic (@StandUpRepublic) August 23, 2018Sessions issued his statement shortly after Trump criticized Sessions as ineffective during an interview with Fox News which aired yesterday.“I put in an attorney general who never took control of the Justice Department. Jeff Sessions, never took control of the Justice Department. It’s sort of an incredible thing,” Trump said yesterday.Chief among Trump’s disappointments with his attorney general is Sessions’ decision last year to recuse himself from the Russia investigation.“It’s a very, very sad day. Jeff Sessions recused himself, which he shouldn’t have done or he should have told me,” he said. “Even my enemies say that Jeff Sessions should have told you that he was going to recuse himself and then you wouldn’t have put him in.”This is far from the first time Trump has criticized Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia probe. Earlier this month, Trump called out Sessions for failing to curb the Russia investigation and for retaining Bruce Ohr,the former associate deputy attorney general, who was named in the controversial Nunes memo which alleged the FBI had abused its surveillance powers.“Our A.G. is scared stiff and Missing in Action,” Trump wrote at the time.The big story that the Fake News Media refuses to report is lowlife Christopher Steeles many meetings with Deputy A.G. Bruce Ohr and his beautiful wife, Nelly. It was Fusion GPS that hired Steele to write the phony & discredited Dossier, paid for by Crooked Hillary & the DNC….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 11, 2018….Do you believe Nelly worked for Fusion and her husband STILL WORKS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. I have never seen anything so Rigged in my life. Our A.G. is scared stiff and Missing in Action. It is all starting to be revealed – not pretty. IG Report soon?  Witch Hunt!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 11, 2018The saga of just why Sessions recused himself from the Russia investigationand why the president has considered his action a profound example of his disloyaltyis a messy one.Last year, aWall Street Journal report revealed that Sessionsused funds from his Senate reelection campaignto cover travel expenses for the 2016 Republican National Convention in Cleveland,where he met with Sergei Kislyak, who wasthen the Russian ambassador to the United States.The news that Sessions met with Kislyak directly contradicted a White House statement that Sessions was not acting on behalf of the campaign at the time.He was literally conducting himself as a United States senator, then-White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said last spring. Spicer further claimed Sessions didnt discuss matters related toTrumps campaign.But according to the WSJ, Sessions used campaign funds for his travel, rather than official Senate Armed Services Committee funds: Sessions campaign accountmade two payments of $1,395 to the Sheraton Cleveland Airport on July 16. The campaign also paid $223 to the Westin Hotel in Cleveland. Both were deemed lodging expenses. None of the payments reimbursing Sessions for his travel expenses reappear in President Trumps 2016 presidential campaign account.And it got worse from there.	Liberal
Conservative commentator Tomi Lahren said she has “never seen a first lady be attacked like” First Lady Melania Trump in a Fox News interview on Wednesday, and was swiftly reminded on social media of numerous instances in which Michelle Obama was belittled by right-wing pundits.Watch Lahren’s questionable comments below:Tomi Lahren on Fox & Friends: "Can you imagine if we would sit here on Fox News and attack Michelle Obama for something that she was trying to do to better the country?" pic.twitter.com/99ujivPdYr— John Whitehouse (@existentialfish) August 22, 2018“I have never seen a first lady be attacked like this, like Melania Trump has, for the good works and the good deeds that she has done,” Lahren said Wednesday onFox & Friends.Lahren was complaining about a comment made by GOP strategist Ana Navarro, who said thatMrs. Trump had a “lack of self-awareness [and] any sense of shame” in her “Be Best” crusade against cyber-bullying – because her husband, President Donald Trump, is the world’s most vocal Twitter antagonist.Navarro joked that the first lady “suffered oxygen deprivation to the brain.”On vacay & I swore Id stay off political twitter.But damn, girlfriends lack of self-awareness & any sense of shame for her husbands use of the Presidency to bully others, is hard to ignore. Only plausible explanation here is, Melania suffered oxygen deprivation to the brain. https://t.co/o93MONfeUl— Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) August 20, 2018“Everything she [Navarro] said is exactly what I’m thinking about her,” Lahren groaned.“Can you imagine if we would sit here on Fox News and attack Michelle Obama for something that she was trying to do to better the country?”Lahren added: “We’d be attacked up and down. But because its Melania, because her last name is Trump, people like Ana Navarro think its okay that theyre entitled to do that.”Oh, we can definitely imagine it, because it happened non-stop during Barack Obama’s presidency, almost exclusively by right-wing talking heads on Fox News.One Fox host said Mrs. Obama was fat.i am dying https://t.co/hki5Z1Ca55https://t.co/XzaXqjxjMzhttps://t.co/Y1lJpmELxWhttps://t.co/SlU1s91Ihz— John Whitehouse (@existentialfish) August 22, 2018There was that time Sean Hannity blasted Mrs. Obama for encouraging kids to go to college.“The Western world is under constant threat from Islamic jihadists,” Hannity griped, “but your first lady, Michelle Obama, is busy making a rap music video about going to college.”@TomiLahren I can imagine Part II:https://t.co/qqGH5724jq— Dave Briggs (@davebriggstv) August 22, 2018Lahren herself has gone after Obama.@TomiLahren hmmm, attack Michelle Obama, who would?https://t.co/H0ZIz0CpLr— Southern Yankee (@jbm85363) August 22, 2018Racist and sexist remarks have been hurled at the Obama family for years.No need to imagine … https://t.co/cZibZaCPkt— Suburban Grouse (@suburbangrouse) August 22, 2018Rush Limbaugh in 2015: “It doesn’t look like Michelle Obama follows her own nutritionary, dietary advice. And then we hear that she’s out eating ribs at 1,500 calories a serving with 141 grams of fat per serving, yeah it does — what do you mean, what do I mean?”There was also former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin, who chastised Mrs. Obama’s plan to help children eat healthily and to exercise.“The first lady cannot trust parents to make decisions for their own children,” Palin said, “for their own families in what we should eat.”But wait, there’s more.	Liberal
People may experience a sense of dj vu when looking at the latest Time magazine cover. The artwork by Tim O’Brien also sets a record for the 95-year-old newsmagazine.While other Time covers related to each other, this is the first time the magazine featured a series showing a sequence of events in the same setting with the same person: President Donald Trump.While Trump may see his frequent covers as an honor, they hardly offer a flattering view of the 45th President. The September 3, 2018 cover is no different.O’Brien’s latest continues to show Trump’s mounting troubles in the White House.TIMEs new cover: Trump is in trouble. Here’s how much worse it could get https://t.co/IgjeHWr2cD pic.twitter.com/hnUc7Njbxu TIME (@TIME) August 23, 2018The first in the series of three Time coverstitled “Nothing to See Here”depicted the President seated behind the famed Resolute Deska large 19th-century desk used by seven Presidents as the White House Oval Office desk. A storm rages while Trump sits seemingly unaffected.Describing his inspiration for the February 2017 cover, O’Brien stated:“When I painted the Nothing to See Here cover art, like many, I assumed the level of chaos could not last… as the never-ending flood of breaking news washed over the White House, and the firings, the scandals and the general mayhem filled each news cycle, I felt the storm metaphor was as relevant as ever.”Watch video of the creation of Nothing to See Here” below:The second cover, “Stormy,” came in April 2018 after the FBI raids on Trump long-time personal lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen. It is a nod both to the mounting issues being faced by Trump and a nod to Stormy Danielsthe pseudonym and preferred name of the dancer, actress, writer and director who performs in adult films.The President again looks unfazed by the rising water and chaos around him, matching his strategy of denying or discrediting the truth.O’Brien’s latest is titled “In Deep”. While Trump no longer sits behind the Resolute Desk, he still keeps his head above water. In describing his latest artwork, O’Brien stated:“I felt that it was too comical or perhaps morbid to see him sitting there. But to have him at the top suggests hes still fighting despite the deepening issues.”The latest O’Brien Trump cover comes after a tough week for the President. A jury found his former campaign manager Paul Manafort guilty on 8 charges and deadlocked on 10 other charges.And that Trump fixer and lawyer who inspired the second cover, Michael Cohen, cut a plea deal with federal prosecutors implicating Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in several crimes.Reactions to the latest Time cover on Twitter range from admiration for O’Brien’s artistic efforts to commentary on the man they depict as the following tweets show.	Liberal
President Donald Trump found himself at the center of even more legal and ethical scandals after his former attorney, Michael Cohen, admitted in court to violating campaign finance laws at the direction of the president.Trump took toFox and Friends in an effortto push back against the allegations, but as Obama ethics expert Norm Eisen points out, he may have made things even worse:BREAKING: In running away from Cohen's claims today, Trump bumbled right into admitting that he lied on his financial disclosures & violated 18 USC 1001. This was already the subject of a @CREWcrew criminal complaint that led to an OGE referral to DOJ–Trump just proved our case! https://t.co/8poUAIhtQf— Norm Eisen (@NormEisen) August 22, 2018In his interview with Ainsely Earhardt, Trump stated that he didn’t know about the hush money Cohen paid to two women in exchange for their silence on alleged affairs with Mr. Trump. According to Eisen, Trump did not disclose this on 2017 financial disclosure forms, which is a federal crime in violation of 18 U.S. Code, Section 1001 which prohibits false statements and is punishable with up to five years in prison.Eisen reiterated his point on CNN:He said:The president, in his usualclumsy way, has stumbled into anotherfederal crime because he signedhis federal financialdisclosures under falsestatements penalty. 18 U.S.C. 1001. Guess what? If you owe somebody money, he just said yes I knew about the payments. He repaid Michael Cohen. He had to list that on his forms. He ommitted!Another government ethics attorney, Walter Shaub, explained the allegation at length.The criminal information in the Cohen case shows that Trump paid Cohen $35k per month for 12 months in January 2017. This means that TRUMP KNEW HE HAD A DEBT TO COHEN WHEN HE OMITTED IT from the liabilities section of the financial disclosure report he filed in June 2017. /1 pic.twitter.com/ShUmo760C2— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 22, 2018He certified that his financial disclosure report was "complete" and that certification was subject to criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C.  208 and 5 U.S.C. app.  104. Some of you will remember @bykowicz reported that his attorney asked that he not have to certify the report. /2 pic.twitter.com/jJSULXGtcN— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 22, 2018https://t.co/gW0WS6tRep— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 22, 2018Until now, we didn't know for sure that the payments started in January 2017. So, although it was extremely unlikely, there was at least a very remote possibility that (as the White House claimed) he didn't know about his debt to Cohen in June 2017. Now we know he did. /4— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 22, 2018A couple of you have asked for a full copy of the criminal information. Here it is, courtesy of @neal_katyal, who is good to follow for his insightful legal analyses: https://t.co/nKTszuhejl— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 22, 2018One correction: It looks like the payments started in Feb and not in Jan. Looks like Cohen received no payment in Jan, double payment in Feb, and then a payment each month after that in 2017. So he was aware of his liability in June 2017 and filed a false financial disclosure. /6— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 22, 2018The accusations come as the White House scrambles to distance itself from Cohen’s testimony.	Liberal
Wednesday, The New York Times reported Betsy DeVosPresident Donald Trump’s controversial Secretary of Education who came from a background with no experience with education but did make large donations to Trump causesexamined the possibility of using funds from her department budget to buy guns for public schools.Congress passed a $50 million school safety bill in March that prohibited the use of funds to buy guns for schools, but now Betsy DeVos is considering using other money to put guns in schools. I guess you never know when a grizzly bear might show up. ?? https://t.co/RV2mejXHpQ Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) August 23, 2018The proposal remains under review according to the report.The federal budget is set up by Congress each fiscal year on a series of appropriations. Those appropriations designate what department can use the funds which is why a surplus of money in the Department of the Interior will not affect a budget shortfall in the Department of Health and Human Services without Congress voting to move the funds from one appropriation to another.Then within that appropriation, Congress can earmark funds for specific programs in a department. Congress earmarked $50 million to the Department of Education for school safety meaning all of those funds must be used for that purpose alone.However earmarked funds can also include rules.In the case of the school safety funds, Congress enacted the provision that those specific funds could not be used to buy guns. But the Department of Education does have ways to get around that provision; use other funds in their budget appropriation that might loosely be interpreted to apply for their gun buying initiative.This is nuts. At time when our children need more academic support in schools, Betsy DeVos is considering diverting education funds to buy guns and arm teachers. She is supposed to be leading the Deptartment of Education, not the NRA. We must stop this dangerous idea! https://t.co/Dlq1jszhyg Chris Van Hollen (@ChrisVanHollen) August 23, 2018Betsy DeVos targeted a program setup in federal education lawthe Student Support and Academic Enrichment grantsthat carries no prohibition against buying guns. Whether DeVos considers the firearms to be Student Support or whether they provide Academic Enrichment remains unclear.News of DeVos’ deliberate attempt to get around the school safety restrictions specifically placed on the Education Department by Congress received negative feedback from organizations promoting an end to school shootings and other forms of gun violence.We will not militarize our schools. We will not militarize our schools. We will not militarize our schools. We will not militarize our schools. We will not militarize our schools. We will not militarize our schools.#BooksNotGuns https://t.co/a1EXFulhYf Ryan Deitsch (@Ryan_Deitsch) August 23, 2018Gabby Giffords, the Arizona congresswoman shot during a public appearance, voiced her reaction on Twitter in a series of tweets. Since the attempt to assassinate her, Giffords and her husbandNASA astronaut Mark Kellyfounded Americans for Responsible Solutions.Teachers are not bodyguards. The Trump Administrations latest plan to allow more teachers to walk around with guns in order to make kids feel safe is absurd  and dangerous. https://t.co/h4iQFQj531 Gabrielle Giffords (@GabbyGiffords) August 23, 2018Arming teachers is not a solution. It recklessly puts American children in even more danger. We can forge a better path. Its time for Americans to find the courage to fight for our own safety. Gabrielle Giffords (@GabbyGiffords) August 23, 2018The President may only listen to special interests that say shootings are acts of evil beyond our control. They are not. Americans are calling on Congress to pass effective laws that protect our kids and keep guns away from dangerous people. Gabrielle Giffords (@GabbyGiffords) August 23, 2018Congress refuses to actso this year we’ll elect leaders who will. This November, we all must vote. We’re going to elect gun safety champions that understand the foolishness of a plan like this and will have the courage to pass stronger gun laws. https://t.co/cFyKkO5co4 Gabrielle Giffords (@GabbyGiffords) August 23, 2018Giffords did not stand alone in her opinion that diverting funds from a program designated for Student Support and Academic Enrichment to purchase guns for teachers was not a solution to school shootings or safety.The National Education Association previously stated forcing teachers to use guns was not a viable or wise choice.Twitter agreed as the following reactions show.	Liberal
President Donald Trump foretold of economic cataclysm if he were to be impeached, predicting to Fox News in a Thursday interview that“everybody would be very poor” should Congress remove him from office.President @realDonaldTrump: "I don't know how you can impeach somebody who's done a great job." pic.twitter.com/3BZNpSzish— Fox News (@FoxNews) August 23, 2018Fox’sAinsely Earhardt asked Trump if he believes Democrats would try to impeach him if they retake control of the U.S. House of Representatives in the fall. The president respondedby patting himself on the back.“You know, I guess it says something like high crimes and all,” Trump said. “I don’t know how you can impeach somebody who has done a great job.”The president continued, warning of fiscal disaster if he gets impeached.Trump: "I will tell you what, if I ever got impeached, I think the market would crash. I think everybody would be very poor because without this thinking [gestures to his head] you would see  you would see numbers that you wouldn't believe  in reverse."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 23, 2018“If I ever got impeached, I think the market would crash, I think everybody would be very poor,” the president said. Trump then pointed at his head and said:“because without this thinking, you would see numbers that you wouldn’t believe, in reverse.”Trump: "If I get impeached, everybody will be poor."He actually said that this morning.So, NOBODY could do well if he wasn't President. NOBODY could get by without him. EVERYBODY needs him to survive.Are there any Trump supporters out there who actually believe that?— Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) August 23, 2018CNBC’s John Harwood pointed out that under Trump, the stock market has gone up 29 percent, while under President Barack Obama, it went up 149 percent.change in Dow Jones Industrial Average:–during Trump presidency so far +29%–during Obama presidency +149% https://t.co/vMmYkTkjRo— John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) August 23, 2018People forget that the DOW was around 7000 when Obama came into office and was around 20000 when he left. #ThankYouObama— Amy L Marckel (@iam__yam) August 23, 2018Trump said he would give himself an “A+” on his job performance so far, citing his Supreme Court appointments and aggressive trade policies..@ainsleyearhardt: "What grade do you give yourself so far?"President @realDonaldTrump: "So I give myself an A+." pic.twitter.com/eI2BcOHiFQ— Fox News (@FoxNews) August 23, 2018“I give myself an A+. I don’t think any President has ever done what I have done,” Trump boasted.We haven’t even been 2 years. Biggest tax cuts in history. Soon to be two unbelievable Supreme Court justices, I’m sure that Justice Kavanaugh will be approved. Justice Gorsuch has been a star. You look at all the things we have done with regulations, the economy is the best it has ever been in history. The only thing I’m doing badly in is the press doesn’t cover me fairly.BREAKING: The job hasnt been so great— Tainted Democracy – we will resist and prevail (@tainteddemo) August 23, 2018Twitter didn’t buy it.Obama’s economy was better, and Trump is a criminal.83% of that bull market was under Obama.  Kick out Trump, because he committed felonies and hired horribly corrupt people, and you ditch the tariffs among other bad ideas.— America…you're in danger, girl (@OverUnderClover) August 23, 2018“Morality is more important than money.”Because morality is more important than money— Ann Marie Chao (@amchow14) August 23, 2018We can have morality & money w/ a better president. Get rid of Trump & Pence (sorry VP)- put in Ryan & reach neutral ground in America.— Blake Alan (@HelloBlakeAlan) August 23, 2018“The market will be fine without you.”The economy has been in a bull market for nine years…. It'll be fine without you— jason arini (@JasonArini) August 23, 2018Why would Congress impeach you, Mr. President?	Liberal
President Donald Trump has long been accused of harboring racist sentimentsthis is the man who referred to Mexicans as “rapists” and called Haiti and African nations “shithole countries,” after alland his latest talking point is straight from the playbook of white nationalists.Trump, in what appears to be a response to a segment on Tucker Carlson’s Fox News show,said hed asked Secretary of State Mike Pompeo toclosely study the South Africa land and farm seizures.”I have asked Secretary of State @SecPompeo to closely study the South Africa land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers. South African Government is now seizing land from white farmers. @TuckerCarlson @FoxNews— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 23, 2018Soon afterward,Khusela Diko, a spokeswoman for South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, toldReuters that Trump was “misinformed” about South Africa’s planned land reforms. The South African government would take up the matter through diplomatic channels,” Diko added.“Hysterical comments and statements do not assist in the process,” Diko later told CNN. “The majority of South Africans want to see land reform. The majority of our farmers, white and black want to be a part of this initiative.”In a tweet, the South African government said it “totally rejects this narrow perception which only seeks to divide our nation and reminds us of our colonial past,” adding that it would “speed up the pace of land reform in an inclusive manner.”South Africa totally rejects this narrow perception which only seeks to divide our nation and reminds us of our colonial past. #landexpropriation @realDonaldTrump @PresidencyZA— South African Government (@GovernmentZA) August 23, 2018South Africa will speed up the pace of  land reform in a careful and inclusive manner that does not divide our nation. #landexpropriation @realDonaldTrump @PresidencyZA— South African Government (@GovernmentZA) August 23, 2018Land reformmore specifically “land restitution”was one of the promisesmade by theAfrican National Congresswhen it came to power in South Africa in 1994, in response to theNative Lands Act of 1913. which “prohibited the establishment of new farming operations, sharecropping or cash rentals by blacks outside of the reserves” on which they were forced to live. White nationalists have claimed that the movement has sparked a “genocide” against white farmers who’ve opposed redistributing lands.These claims have been disproven time and again, and Trump quickly became the target of criticism for perpetuating a bald facedlie.Spewing rubbish as usual. Not a single white owned farm has been seized. More black workers are killed by white farmers than white farmers killed by black. You are killing South Africa with your selfish policies. This man was beaten by whites pic.twitter.com/jBHQVMAJtl— Nhlanhla C Mndaweni (@NhlanhlaMndawen) August 23, 2018South African land seizures are a huge topic with American right-wing extremists. They'll interpret this as another thumbs-up from the president. https://t.co/pQFg41u9ME— Will Sommer (@willsommer) August 23, 2018Trump tweet brought to you by the same people who gave the world apartheid. Violence against white farmers in SA is at a 20-year low. But, remember, 9% of population owns 72% of private farmland. But 100% of Trumps tweet is designed to sow racial division. https://t.co/Qgvsa2Wbuv— Richard Stengel (@stengel) August 23, 2018Subtle https://t.co/jh2h065UYc— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) August 23, 2018The president of the United States has adopted a vile white supremacist hate narrative, right out of the darkest corners of the internet, and is turning it into policy. https://t.co/08Okq1qH3l— Andrew Stroehlein (@astroehlein) August 23, 2018Trump tweeting about white farmers being wronged by South African government. I have two words for Trump: Puerto Rico— Ron Waxman (@RonWaxman) August 23, 2018According to activist Richard Raber, whose pieces for South Africa’s daily online newspaperThe Daily Maverick have examined the white nationalist response to land restitution at length, “such anxieties and nostalgia reflect a lack of imagination, leadership, and most importantly empathy.”He adds:Similarly, European, Australian and North American xenophobic reactions reflect a fear of de-centring, of no longer occupying a core orexceptionalposition. Lacking popular leadership with the capacity to tap into the visceral nature of these fears, we find ourselves with large segments of our societies accepting and acting upon demonstrably false truths; white genocide is mythical (and those who peddle it are reprehensible) though the fear of being shifted to the political, intellectual, moral or representational peripheryfeelstrue for its adherents.The White House has not commented on accusations that it has, through the president, legitimized a white nationalist myth.	Liberal
Incumbents enjoy a huge advantage when it comes to elections. Some 85 percent of incumbents retain their seats in each election cycle. But according to a new NBC News/Marist poll, a Texas Senate seat may no longer be a sure thing.Of course, 85 percent success means 15 percent are defeated. Now Robert Francis “Beto” O’Rourke hopes to be part of a turnover of incumbentsspecifically Republican incumbentsin the United States Senate.Texas Democratic Representative O’Rourkeoriginally given no chance to defeat Texas Republican incumbent Senator Rafael Edward “Ted” Cruzcurrently serves in the U.S. House of Representatives for his birthplace and hometown of El Paso, Texas. Canadian immigrant Cruz serves as the junior Senator for all of Texas.But through a series of barnstorming town hall meetings across the state, O’Rourke narrowed the gap between himself and Cruz. In a new poll by NBC News/Marist, that gap sits at just 4 percentage points.O’Rourke garnered 45 percent support to Cruzs 49 percent among registered voters. With six percent of voters still undecided, winning those votes could decide the election.NBC News/Marist poll in Texas:O’Rourke 45% Cruz 49% undecided 6% Michael Del Moro (@MikeDelMoro) August 22, 2018Along party lines,90 percent of Democrats back Beto O’Rourke and 91 percent of Republicans favor Ted Cruz. But Texas independents gave the two men almost equal shares, with 46 percent for ORourke and 45 percent for Cruz.O’Rourke leads by one point among independents https://t.co/ASdeZd34Jx Michael Del Moro (@MikeDelMoro) August 22, 2018A further breakdown of numbers shows the split among demographics for both men.Cruz captures the Republican, conservative, White, men, over 45 and overall demographics. O’Rourke picks up independents, Latinos, women, under 45, moderate, liberal, African-American and Democratic voters.Strongest support for Cruz comes from conservatives at 81 percent, white evangelicals at 79 percent, whites without a college degree at 67 percent and rural voters at 66 percent. O’Rourke gains his most fervent backers amongliberals with 84 percent, African-Americans with 82 percent, moderates with 62 percent and voters under 45 with 52 percent.Surprisingly, the Irish-American O’Rourkewho gained his traditionally Latino nickname of Beto from friends as a child in El Pasoleads Cuban, Irish and Italian-American Cruz among Latino voters who make up 20 percent of the voting base in Texas.53 percent favor O’Rourke versus 42 percent for Cruz.Of the decided voters, 60 percent state they strongly support their candidate and remain unlikely to change their vote between now and November.Reactions to NBC News release of the poll numbers however seemed to favor O’Rourke. Cruz’s national popularity took a hit when he ran for President while O’Rourke draws comparisons to Robert Kennedy.Social media reactions to Cruz’s lead in the poll drew less than favorable responses as the following tweets show.	Liberal
In an interview on “Fox & Friends,” President Donald Trump claimed that he knew about payments his former personal attorney and fixer Michael Cohen made to silence adult film actress Stephanie Clifford (better known as Stormy Daniels) andPlayboy model Karen McDougalbut says that these payments did not come from campaign coffers and thus do not constitute a campaign finance violation.“Later on I knew, later on,” Trump told Fox’s Ainsley Earhardt. “But you have to understand Ainsley, what he [Cohen] did, and they weren’t taken out of campaign finance. That’s a big thing, that’s a much bigger thing, “Did they come out of the campaign?” and they didn’t come out of the campaign, they came from me, and I tweeted about it. I don’t know if you know but I tweeted about the payments.”EXCLUSIVE: President @realDonaldTrump on if he knew about the Cohen payments. See more from his interview with @ainsleyearhardt tomorrow 6-9amET. pic.twitter.com/HPJPslOG6X— FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) August 22, 2018Insisting once again that the payments did not “come from the campaign,” the president said that “the first question” he asked when he heard about the payments was, “Did they come out of the campaign?”“Because that could be a little dicey,” he added, “and they didn’t come out of the campaign and that’s big,” continuing: “But they weren’tit’s not even a campaign violation. If you look at President [Barack] Obama, he had a massive campaign violation, but he had a different attorney general and they viewed it a lot differently.”Trump’s statements indicate he misunderstands just why the payments themselves are so important. Speaking under oath to a federal judge yesterday as he pleaded guilty toeight criminal countsfive charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraudCohen said that he made the payments at Trump’s behest to influence the election.In fact, as he pleaded guilty to the campaign finance violations, he said he had paid Clifford and McDougalhush money “in coordination and at the direction of a candidate for federal office… for the principal purpose of influencing the election.”It does not matter whether the money to pay these women came from the campaign or not: That the women were paid off for the explicit purpose of boosting Trump’s chances of winning the 2016 presidential election is precisely why the scandal has received so much airtime, even as salacious details of Trump’s proclivities during his affairs with both Clifford and McDougal have also nabbed front page headlines.It was an expectedly weak about-face for a president who once so vehemently denied both having any knowledge of these payments and any suggestion that he and his personal attorney ran afoul of campaign finance laws.And he was immediately called out.Everytime I hear Trump say the words,"you have to understand", I know he is telling a whopper of a lie.— Patrice (@patrice_noonan) August 22, 2018The fact that payments to @StormyDaniels "didn't come out of the campaign, they came from me" is basically the reason the Justice Department concluded that they were felonies.— Brad Heath (@bradheath) August 22, 2018Donald Trump had sexual intercourse with women during his marriage to Melania, then hurriedly paid the women off in the closing hours of the campaign to keep his serial infidelities out of the news. In so doing he committed felonies. That's who this guy is.— Chuck Graef (@chuckgraef) August 22, 2018So according to Trump  his lawyer plead guilty and is facing jail time for a crime that isnt a crime. Cohen plead guilty to a crime, that isnt a crime, and a federal judge, prosecutor and Cohens own lawyer signed off on.  How STUPID does he think we all are?— Katie Girl (@BuckBrook) August 22, 2018Nor did it escape public notice that Trump had lied from the top of the interview when he claimed he only knew about the payments Cohen made after the fact. Trump can be heard on a tape Cohen released last month discussing paying the two women off.He is on tape discussing how to pay her off ! Sorry! You aint wiggling out of this one chief!— Danagal (@DanagalCo) August 22, 2018Fox was also accused of “aiding and abetting” the president.Shocking () that Ainsley didnt ask about the recording Cohen made where he & Cohen are discussing how the payments are being set up. That was in September, 2016. He knew then & is still LYING. Fox propaganda news is letting it happen, promoting Trump fiction. Appalling!— Laura Ehrig  (@LauraEhrig) August 22, 2018Do you not vet anything he says. Youre basically allowing him the opportunity to rewrite reality. He freaking admitted to a crime. Again. Your shit network is aiding & abetting federal crimes. Ffs can anyone put a stop to this— Seth Willis (@bayouboy19) August 22, 2018According to Lanny Davis, who represents Michael Cohen, if Cohen is guilty of campaign finance violations, then the president is too.“Today he [Cohen] stood up and testified under oath that Donald Trump directed him to commit a crime by making payments to two women for the principal purpose of influencing an election,” Davis said yesterday in a statement following Cohen’s plea. “If those payments were a crime for Michael Cohen, then why wouldn’t they be a crime for Donald Trump?”Trump’s claim that former President Barack Obama is guilty of the same crime as Cohen also doesn’t hold up under scrutiny.	Liberal
During Wednesday’s White House press briefing, Press Secretary Sarah Sanders deemed a yes or no question by Celia Vega of ABC News unworthy of a straight answer. After discussing the events of Tuesday where longtime fixer and personal lawyer for Donald Trump, Michael Cohen, named the President as an unindicted co-conspirator, Vega asked:“Can you stand here today and say the President has never lied to the American people, because so many people now look back at that tape of him on Air Force One saying he knew nothing about these payments when in fact we now know he knew everything about these payments. So has he lied?”To which Sanders responded:“Look, again, I think that’s a ridiculous accusation.”Sanders then repeated her prior scripted disclaimer without directly addressing Vega’s actual question about lying, saying, “The President in this matter has done nothing wrong, and there are no charges against him.”Watch the exchange here:Asked if she could say Pres. Trump has never lied to the public, press secretary Sarah Sanders tells @CeciliaVega, “I think that’s a ridiculous accusation. The president in this matter has done nothing wrong, and there are no charges against him.” https://t.co/DuaWJzfKYo pic.twitter.com/v69UeOsLjY ABC News (@ABC) August 22, 2018But did the President lie? And if he did lie to the citizens of the United Stateswhom he took an oath to serveis that not wrong? And finally, is not currently under indictment synonymous with did nothing wrong?Remember when Trump lied on Air Force One, on camera, about knowing about the Stormy Daniels payoff?Journalist: Did Trump lie? Sarah Sanders: That’s ridiculous. Trump has done nothing wrong.#WednesdayWisdompic.twitter.com/rHe3YjEJA9 Holly Figueroa O’Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) August 22, 2018Today Sarah Sanders suggests that because Trump hasnt been charged with a crime, he didnt commit one.Under DOJ guidance, Trump cant be charged with a crime while in office. Now that his lawyer has implicated him in a crime, the public must examine the evidence against him. Renato Mariotti (@renato_mariotti) August 22, 2018Sarah Sanders: The President has done nothing wrong and there are no charges against him.Maam I just asked you if you wanted paper or plastic. The Volatile Mermaid (@OhNoSheTwitnt) August 22, 2018People referred to the interview on Air Force One as proof positive of a lie by the President caught on tape.Here is that Air Force One video:In the video, Trump states several times he knew nothing about the $130,000.00 payment to Stephanie Cliffordthe dancer, writer, director and actress who performs in adult films under the pseudonym Stormy Daniels. Trump’s response is clear; he knew nothing about the payment.But in the following months, the President’s story changed many times until finally stating he not only knew of the $130,000.00 payment, he authorized it and repaid Michael Cohen for it. Which means he lied during the Air Force One interview or he is lying now. Plus there is the matter of the Cohen tape of Trump discussing a potential payment to Karen McDougal..@PressSec refuses to explain to @kaitlancollins how the president could tell Fox (in an interview on WH grounds today) that he learned of the payments to women afterwards when there’s audio tape of him discussing one payment beforehand. Retreats to talking points. Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) August 22, 2018Regardless of which version is the lie or if they are all lies, can Sanders and the White House still state unequivocally that Trump did nothing wrong? Lying is supposed to be wrong.The Twittersphere answered Celia Vega’s question and corrected Sarah Sanders after the video of Vega’s question went public as the following reactions show.	Liberal
Senator Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) has come under fire for comments he made about impeachment in 1999, providing a rather fitting juxtaposition to the inaction he’s been criticized for as the nation contends with President Donald Trump’s litany of both personal and political scandals.Graham made the case for impeachment when President Bill Clinton was in office and when he was a member of the House of Representatives.“You dont have to be convicted of a crime to lose your job in this Constitutional Republic, Graham said in a 1999 clip posted on Twitter by MSNBCs Lawrence O’Donnell.Every reporter must now ask @LindseyGrahamSC if he still believes in the standard he set for removing a president in the impeachment of Bill Clinton pic.twitter.com/kbF7guFjm7— Lawrence O'Donnell (@Lawrence) August 22, 2018In 1999, Graham declared that the president could be impeached if “Congress decides your conduct as a public official is clearly out of bounds.”Impeachment is not about punishment. Impeachment is about cleansing the office. Impeachment is about restoring honor and integrity to the office,” Graham said at the time.The video has opened Graham up to significant criticism, with many wondering where the legislator who so openly advocated for Bill Clinton’s impeachmentindeed, Grahamwas one of the House prosecutors during the Clinton impeachment proceedingsis today.Lindsey first has to confront and resolve his personal exposure, that Trump has leveraged, before he can rediscover the honour and integrity demanded of the peoples representatives.— Don, youre a snollygoster (@goughie64) August 22, 2018What say you @LindseyGrahamSC ?  Time to stand up buddy, dont ya think?   I mean come on how much more can you take if you are still the man who spoke these words?— Michael Kelly (@michaeljkellyjr) August 22, 2018Lindsey is compromised and a deplorable hypocrite.— SUBPOENA POWER  (@Sunnysgrl62) August 22, 2018@LindseyGrahamSC do you still believe in the standard you set for removing a president in the impeachment of Bill Clinton?   A whole lot of your constituents would like to know where you stand on this!— Robert Stabell (@bstabell) August 22, 2018SC is asking where in the world is this @LindseyGrahamSC? We dont know the one masquerading as Lindsey today.— WatchYourRepsSC (@WatchYourRepsSC) August 22, 2018The renewed interest in Graham’s comments comes a day after Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal attorney and fixer, pleaded guilty to eight criminal countsfive charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraudin a deal struck with federal prosecutors.Cohen said under oath that he violated campaign finance laws to pay off adult film actress Stephanie Clifford and formerPlayboymodel Karen McDougal at Trumps behest. This is the first time the president himself has been implicated in a federal crime. (And On the same day, Paul Manafort, the president’s former campaign manager was convicted of eight criminal countsby a grand jury in Virginia.)Graham has not responded to requests for comment on the video of his statements on impeachment, but he did comment on Cohen’s plea and Manafort’s conviction, saying that both cases are proof that the legal system is doing the job it’s designed to do. In the same message, however, he said that special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation has yet to secure any “charges or convictions for colluding with the Russian government by any member of the Trump campaign in the 2016 election.”The American legal system is working its will in both the #PaulManafort and #MichaelCohen cases.  Thus far, there have yet to be any charges or convictions for colluding with the Russian government by any member of the Trump campaign in the 2016 election.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) August 21, 2018Its important to let this process continue without interference. I hope Mr. Mueller can conclude his investigation sooner rather than later for the benefit of the nation.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) August 21, 2018Graham came under fire here as well.Impeachment is not about punishment. Impeachment is about cleansing the office. Impeachment is about restoring honor and integrity to the office. # hypocrite— 410e9th (@410E9th) August 22, 2018Remember when you said Impeachment is not about punishment. Impeachment is about cleansing the office. Impeachment is about restoring honor and integrity to the office. Well?  What are you doing, sir?— Malcontent Coffin-Dodger (@TheRealTeddyBee) August 22, 2018Michael Cohen is going to change that. He is about to give Robert Mueller the COMPLETE details about the conspiracy to collide with Russia to commit TREASON against the USA by defrauding, undermining, interfering and influencing our elections according to Lanny Davis.— Psykotik Khameleon (@kevinstarr) August 22, 2018It didn’t end there, either.	Liberal
After Tuesday’s eight-count guilty verdict against former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort and revelations made during the plea deal of one-time fixer and personal lawyer for President Donald Trump, Michael Cohen, many asked the same question of their elected officials in the United States Senate: what about Brett Kavanaugh?Two Senate Republicans of conscience should ask for a hold on Kavanaughs confirmation given the very dark cloud over the President at the moment.It may be the only way possible to deal with a national accountability midterm like we havent had since 1974. Andy Slavitt (@ASlavitt) August 22, 2018Brett Kavanaugh is Trump’s pick to fill the Supreme Court seat vacated in July by Justice Anthony Kennedy.Several Senators have held private meetings with Kavanaugh, which is common for Senators prior to confirmation hearings, but on Wednesday, in light of Cohen’s assertion that he broke the law at the behest of Donald Trump, Senator Mazie Hirono (D-HI) made it clear that those revelations were a bridge too far and that she had canceled her meeting with Trump’s nominee.“I have cancelled my meeting with Judge Kavanaugh. [President Donald Trump], who is an unindicted co-conspirator in a criminal matter, does not deserve the courtesy of a meeting with his nomineepurposely selected to protect, as we say in Hawaii, his own okole.”I have cancelled my meeting with Judge Kavanaugh. @realDonaldTrump, who is an unindicted co-conspirator in a criminal matter, does not deserve the courtesy of a meeting with his nomineepurposely selected to protect, as we say in Hawaii, his own okole. Senator Mazie Hirono (@maziehirono) August 22, 2018And people on Twitter expressed their support:Mazie Hirono might be the most underrated politician in America today. She kicks ass all day long and not even stage 4 kidney cancer has stopped her. Thank you for all that you do, Senator!— Adam Best (@adamcbest) August 22, 2018Thank you Senator for doing the right thing!— Fiercemama (@emastrant1) August 22, 2018Well said.  The entire Congress should feel the same way.  America deserves it.— Steve Collins (@stevecstny) August 22, 2018But Hirono wasn’t the only one. Senator Markey of Massachusetts echoed Hirono’s sentiment with his own tweet:I will not take a meeting with Brett Kavanaugh. He has been nominated by someone implicated, and all but named as a co-conspirator, in federal crimes. His nomination is tainted and should be considered illegitimate.— Ed Markey (@SenMarkey) August 22, 2018Senators Cory Booker, Kamala Harris and Richard Blumenthal urged the Senate to end consideration of Kavanaugh’s nomination in the wake of yesterday’s revelations:Trump's personal lawyer has sworn under oath that POTUS directed him to commit a federal crime.The Senate must reject any SCOTUS nominee from a president who is an alleged criminal co-conspiratorespecially when that nominee may rule to protect Trump from any accountability.— Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) August 22, 2018Americans don’t want a president who is an unindicted co-conspirator in a crime to have the power to appoint someone to the Supreme Court. We should not proceed with Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation hearings. Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) August 22, 2018The President of the United States has been implicated in a criminal plot to violate campaign finance laws & influence the outcome of an election. Under no circumstances should we be considering his nomination of Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court in just one week.— Richard Blumenthal (@SenBlumenthal) August 22, 2018And Senator Shaheen called for a delay of confirmation hearings:In light of yesterdays events, the Senate should delay hearings on Kavanaughs nomination to the Supreme Court. There must be checks and balances on this President.— Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (@SenatorShaheen) August 22, 2018People had their backs:	Liberal
United States Representative Robert Francis “Beto” O’Rourke currently represents his birthplace, El Paso, Texas, in the House of Representatives. Now he hopes to take the U.S. Senate seat occupied by former presidential candidate and Canadian immigrant, Ted Cruz. Cruz was born in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.In their campaign to win one of Texas’ U.S. Senate seats in the 2018 midterms, Republican Cruz recently attacked O’Rourke for being un-American and less patriotic. Why? Because of O’Rourke’s defense of the U.S. Constitution and honest answer about a divisive subject.During a town hall meeting in Houston, Texas, on August 10, an audience member asked O’Rourke his opinion on the National Football League (NFL) protests against the deaths of unarmed Black people during encounters with law enforcement. Rather than avoid the topic or provide a vague response while avoiding the actual question, O’Rourke answered honestly while respecting the questioner.Texas voters organization Greater Houston for Betofrustrated with political posturing, pandering and double speakshared the video as an example of a straight answer. From there, it was picked up by online video producer Now This and turned into one of their own videos, going viral on Facebook and Twitter.People are applauding Beto O’Rourke both for his straightforward honesty and his explanation of his stance while respecting the opposing view.Watch the original video here.The unidentified off camera man at the Texas town hall stated he has relatives who are veterans. He then asked O’Rourke, “I wanted to know how you personally felt about how disrespectful it is when you have the NFL players kneeling during the national anthem.”“I wanted to know if you found that disrespectful to our country, to our veterans, anybody related to that,” the man continued. “I just find it incredibly frustrating that people seem to be OK with that.”From the phrasing of the question, it was clear how a politician who panders to his audience members would need to respond. However O’Rourke went with honesty over political maneuvering.If anyone needs an explainer on why we Take A Knee…Here it is!Vote for Beto! BitterDickery ™ (@BitterDickery) August 22, 2018After thanking the man for a great question on a very tough issue that “if we don’t talk about is not going to get better”, O’Rourke stated his gratitude to active duty military members, retirees and veterans. He then stated his short answer to the question of NFL protests being disrespectful was “no, I don’t think it’s disrespectful.”His response was met with enthusiastic applause. O’Rourke went on however to explain his reasoning stating “reasonable people can disagree on this issue…and it makes them no less American to come down on a different conclusion to this issue.”Im a Texan who proudly supports @BetoORourke I have sign in my yard, a sticker on my car, donated, and attended four town hallsa first for this 64 year old white woman! And Im one of legions of Beto supporters. Keep him in your Twitter verse. Gayle Lacy (@gvlacy) August 22, 2018O’Rourke relayed reflections gained from the booksParting the Waters: America in the King Years 1954-1963by Taylor Branch,a three-volume history of Martin Luther King Jr. and the Civil Rights Movement.I live in TX and @BetoORourke has my vote this November. He is absolutely brilliant and listening to him speak inspires me. GO BETO! Issa S (@C_MSledge) August 22, 2018“[T]his non-violent peaceful movement to get betterbecause they didn’t get fullcivil rights for their fellow Americans, the challenges that they faced,” O’Rourke stated before giving examples of peaceful protests met by violence and even death. He added that some who protested for civil rights were also veterans or relatives of those who died during WWII, defending freedom on the battlefield.My dad saw this today and said holy crap its Bobby Kennedy. I got send him some money and tell my TX friends to vote for him. No lie! ThisMachineSurroundsHateAndForcesItToSurrender (@SomervilleGtrCo) August 22, 2018O’Rourke then went on to explain how this connects to the current protests being staged in the NFL.	Liberal
After a riveting news day on Tuesday afternoon, networks and newspapers everywhere are covering the guilty pleas entered by former Trump attorney Michael Cohen (in which he implicated the president) and former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort being found guilty within minutes of Cohen’s surrender.The events are dominating the news today, except, apparently, on the president’s favorite network: Fox News.The network discussed everything from playtime:We're in the most turbulent moment of the Trump presidency, but pediatricians encouraging playtime is a big story over on Fox and Friends. pic.twitter.com/BAEfXsTT1t— Adam Best (@adamcbest) August 22, 2018to Hooters:Fox and Friends will rather interview Hooter Girls than talk about yesterdays Yuge Events pic.twitter.com/aOHcKJwoTa— Your God Black Jesus (@YoGodBlackJesus) August 22, 2018to the Tooth Fairy.Morning Joe: Paul Manafort and Michael Cohen have, combined, been found or pleaded guilty to 16 feloniesCNN: Paul Manafort and Michael Cohen have, combined, been found or pleaded guilty to 16 feloniesFox and Friends: pic.twitter.com/0Rix0E0oqc— Bits and Pieces (@BrutallyRandom) August 22, 2018Right now, @foxandfriends literally is airing a story about the Tooth Fairy pic.twitter.com/euMTF88bH3— Roland Scahill (@rolandscahill) August 22, 2018To be fair, the show did cover the Manafort and Cohen stories…for 3 minutes:Michael Cohen & Paul Manafort, both former members of Trump's inner circle, dealt charges pic.twitter.com/WaIT7URADY— FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) August 22, 2018But while many were appalled at the short shrift that Trump’s favorite show gave to these monumental stories, others were hardly surprised.Thanks for the update @ridovem I wouldnt have been surprised even if @FoxNews & @foxandfriends acted as though nothing big happened today. Remember were not supposed to believe anything unless we hear it from Trump or @FoxNews @seanhannity must be rewriting the script https://t.co/ZefrpOg8MD— Dsire (@Desiree_Oz) August 22, 2018I'd like to say I'm surprised, but I'm really not.— Jackie Blue  (@JackieRoyster) August 22, 2018Tuesday’s developments are sure to be remembered as the more pivotal moments in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign, so many criticized the network for what they saw as skirting the issue.Fox and Friends a state propaganda show on a state propaganda network is talking about the tooth fairy with all the breaking news out here. It's like the White House is burning, but nope, let's talk about the tooth fairy.— JoJo (@DomajorReminor) August 22, 2018Fox and Friends has moved on from the 3 minute segment on Michael Cohen to commemorate the Tooth Fairy. There have been zero typos in this thread so far and yes, I said the Tooth Fairy.— Robert Caruso (@robertcaruso) August 22, 2018Every major news organization is reporting on the Cohen plea deal and Manafort guilty verdicts…..Fox And Friends, on the other hand, is speaking of how awesome Trumps rally went and how coal is so great. No wonder their viewers are so brainwashed. Unbelievable!— Tina Neal Vickers (@TBiickers) August 22, 2018Douchey and the Douchebags on 'Fox and Friends' finally ran out of commercials and started covering the biggest crisis facing America this morning: slacker millenials who don't believe in 'American exceptionalism.' (you can't make this shit up) pic.twitter.com/0h7lwwCm6s— Bloodaxe (@Norse_Berserker) August 22, 2018While yesterday’s events seem indefensible, they haven’t stopped many Trump supporters and Fox News anchors from trying.	Liberal
Hours after President Donald Trump’s former lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen struck a plea deal with federal prosecutors for his involvement in financial crimes and campaign finance violations on Tuesday, his lawyer, Lanny Davis, told NPR that Cohen would not accept a pardon from Trump.“I know that Mr. Cohen would never accept a pardon from a man that he considers to be both corrupt and a dangerous person in the oval office,” Davis said to NPR‘s Rachel Martin Wednesday morning.Cohens attorney, Lanny Davis, just drew a pretty clear line on whether Cohen would accept a pardon from Trump.Davis will join us shortly on @Morning_Joe https://t.co/1gormMQf1U pic.twitter.com/8eELC7itg7— Michael Del Moro (@MikeDelMoro) August 22, 2018Cohen “flatly authorized me to say under no circumstances would he accept a pardon from Mr. Trump,” Davis added, “who uses the pardon power in a way that no president in American history has ever used a pardon  to relieve people of guilt who committed crimes, who are political cronies of his.”Davis continued his savage rejection of a potential pardon of Cohen, citing past pardons issued by the president for individuals such as Joe Arpaio, a former Arizona sheriff whom Trump pardoned last year after Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt of court.“Mr. Cohen is not interested in being dirtied by a pardon from such a man” as Trump, Davis said.Davis referred to Trump as a “criminal” following Cohen’s admission that “a candidate for federal office” had directed him to pay hush money to two women weeks before the 2016 election with the intent of swaying the outcome of the race.Davis confirmed that Trump is the unindicted co-conspirator referenced in Cohen’s plea deal.Now @MichaelCohen212 is committed to continue to do so going forward as can be seen from his sworn statement in federal court today about @realDonaldTrump instruction to @MichaelCohen212 to pay money to 2 women that Mr. Cohen admitted was a campaign finance law violation (2 of 3)— Lanny Davis (@LannyDavis) August 21, 2018Davis said the real issue isn’t trying to silence women, but rather, Trump’s blatant instruction to “influence the outcome of an election.”“He has not pled guilty to a crime, but his own lawyers have described him directing somebody to do something that is a criminal act  which is to hush up his affairs with two women,” Davis said. “And that’s not what this is about: It’s about his hushing up those affairs in order to influence the outcome of an election.”Davis added that Cohen intends on cooperating with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s ongoing investigation into collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.“If he tells the truth to the special counsel who talks to him, and I believe he will,” Davis said, “he will have topics that in my opinion will be of interest to the special counsel in his Russian investigation and related topics.”For his part, Trump tweeted on Wednesday morning that Cohen is a lousy lawyer.If anyone is looking for a good lawyer, I would strongly suggest that you dont retain the services of Michael Cohen!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2018But Trump only hires the best people?I don't think he'll be a lawyer much longer.— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 22, 2018Boy, Trump is truly an excellent judge of character, isnt he? Half his campaign staff are convicted felons now, including his long time lawyer, Giuliani has gone full Orwell, and Omarosa is playing him like a fiddle.— Morgana voted 4 Beto (@morgana_SSS) August 22, 2018Good thing I found this Yelp review before I hired this Cohen guy to handle MY Russian collusion!— Tom the Dancing Bug (@RubenBolling) August 22, 2018He IS a parody of a President.— Some Bald Bloke. (@SomeBaldBloke) August 22, 2018 pic.twitter.com/b2GNmomGmd— John Simpson (@Simpsonn019) August 22, 2018If anyone is looking for a good president, I would strongly suggest that you dont retain the services of Donald Trump! There I fixed it for you.— Karim Babin (@karimbabin) August 22, 2018That’s a “hella burn on Trump,” Twitter users responded.	Liberal
Stephanie Clifford, the adult film actress better known as Stormy Daniels, had a rather short and sweet reaction to the news that Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s former personal attorney and fixer, had pleaded guilty to eight criminal countsfive charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraudin a deal struck with federal prosecutors.The news that Cohen had implicated the president in a scheme to unlawfully silence two women, including Clifford, without whose very public efforts Cohen would likely never have been charged, sent shock waves around the world.“How ya like me now?!” she wrote.How ya like me now?! # teamstormy— Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) August 21, 2018It was the moment of vindication Clifford had been waiting for, having suffered through months of having her character impugned and her story discredited, and her gleeand undoubtful reliefwas infectious.Stormy, by hiring @MichaelAvenatti you just may have saved the United States of America. The way I see it, you are a hero. Thank you!— THE BADGER! (@508gloryFelix) August 22, 2018I absolute adore you. Your fierce bravery in pushing back on the muthafuckah-in-chief has been a highlight of my life. He has gotten away with so much for so long. Its time for him to crash & burn after using & abusing people for decades. #TeamStormy #GirlPower #FuckTrump pic.twitter.com/fqdyh8NPg1— Kathy (Checks & Balances Now) Hays  (@everybodyzzmama) August 22, 2018You're a smart woman,#StormyDaniels.  Thank you for standing up to the lies and the liars. History-and your daughter-will remember you demanded that others respect you, no matter the size of their bank accounts, their fame or their job title. — Ann Ladenberger (@AnnLadenberger) August 22, 2018We LOVE you!! We all owe you a HUGE anount of gratitude for your courage l& inspiration. You werent afraid to speak up & go after Cohen & Trump! Today wouldnt have happened without you! Thank YOU!! You ROCK!! Xoxo — Hippiemama (@hippiemama2002) August 22, 2018Loving every second of the collapse of the lies…well done for standing your ground. That pesky truth always comes out.— Mel Bee  (@mbeethriae) August 22, 2018I thought you were awesome right froth the get-go. And you just keep getting better!— Alice Evans (@AliceEvansGruff) August 22, 2018President Trump has responded to the news by leveling attacks against Cohen, whom he has for months characterized as disloyal. In two separate tweets, he tore into Cohen while praising Paul Manafort, his former campaign manager who on Tuesday was convicted of eight criminal countsby a grand jury in Virginia.If anyone is looking for a good lawyer, I would strongly suggest that you dont retain the services of Michael Cohen!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2018I feel very badly for Paul Manafort and his wonderful family. Justice took a 12 year old tax case, among other things, applied tremendous pressure on him and, unlike Michael Cohen, he refused to break – make up stories in order to get a deal. Such respect for a brave man!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2018There was no mention from the president of Cohen’s admission that he violated campaign finance laws to pay off Clifford and formerPlayboy model Karen McDougal at Trump’s behest.Cohen had found himself at the center of the questions regarding a payment Clifford received from himas part of the non-disclosure agreement to keep her from discussing a sexual encounter with Trumpback in 2006,while hewas married to his current wife, Melania, and just a few months after Melania gave birth to their son, Barron.A separate lawsuit filed by Cliffordcontends that Cohen initiated a bogus arbitration hearing against her without notifying her beforehand, and a copy of the restraining order against Cliffordconfirms that the judge made a one-party ruling that did not require her to be notified.	Liberal
U.S. Representative Duncan Hunter (R-CA) and his wife Margaret were indicted Tuesday on charges of misusing campaign funds and filing false reports with the Federal Election Commission.Analysis: 10 of the ickiest allegations in the Duncan Hunter indictment https://t.co/EhmCzDYZYW— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) August 22, 2018The conservativeCalifornia congressman and his wife stand accused of using more than $250,000 worth of campaign funds for personal purposes between 2009 and 2016.The 47-page indictment includes counts of conspiracy, wire fraud, falsification of records, prohibited use of campaign funds, and aiding and abetting.The Hunters “had less than $1,000 in reportable assets for each of the years 2009-2016,” the indictment says, offering a possible motivator for their illegal activity.“The funds were allegedly used for family vacations to locations such as Hawaii and Italy, as well as more mundane expenses such as dental work and school tuition,” CBS reported on Tuesday. “The Justice Department also alleges that the Hunters used tens of thousands of dollars for smaller expenses such as fast food and video games.”Hunter is the second House Republican in as many weeks to be charged with financial crimes. Representative Chris Collins (R-NY) was indicted on charges of insider trading on August 8.The first two members of Congress to endorse Donald Trump, Chris Collins and Duncan Hunter Jr., have been indicted for financial crimes and campaign finance violations in the past two weeks.Gee, I wonder what they saw in Trump?— Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) August 22, 2018Collins and Hunter were the first House members to endorse Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.Guess what Donald Trump's first two congressional endorsers have in common. pic.twitter.com/2ktF1qEZyM— Maddow Blog (@MaddowBlog) August 22, 2018Hunter will be removed from his position on U.S. House committees and is facing calls for resignation from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), who said Hunter represents a “rampant culture of corruption” inside Republican circles. Hunter should resign to “affirm that no one is above the law,” Pelosi said.House Speaker Paul Ryan removes Rep. Duncan Hunter from committee assignments after indictment. The charges against Rep. Hunter are deeply serious. https://t.co/lBwx8mshWu pic.twitter.com/kX5Z0fNyNG— ABC News (@ABC) August 22, 2018The Justice Department began its investigation of Hunter in June 2016, alleging that the Hunters filed false reports with the FEC to hide their nefarious spending.The Washington Post on Wednesday broke down the 10-most damning accusations against the Hunters, who prosecutors say “knew that many of their desired purchases could be paid by using campaign funds.”1.When Hunter and his wife chatted with each other about how they were able to get cash from the campaign to spend on daily life, they allegedly said “it was great.”2. Margaret Hunter allegedly spent $200 on tennis shoes at Dicks Sporting Goods, which she then claimed as being for an annual dove hunting event for wounded warriors.3. When Hunter told his wife he needed to buy my Hawaii shorts, but he was out of money, she allegedly told him to buy them from a golf pro shop so he could claim they were actually golf balls for wounded warriors.4. When the water utility company threatened to turn off their water, Margaret Hunter allegedly spent $300 in campaign funds to pay the bill.5. Margaret Hunter allegedly spent $152 on makeup at Nordstrom and told the campaign it was gift basket items for the Boys and Girls Clubs of San Diego.6. Another $394 from Macys was listed as gift baskets for local organizations.7. In an attempt to justify spending campaign funds on a family trip to Italy, Hunter asked a naval base there for a tour. When officials said they couldnt do it then, Hunter said, Tell the Navy to go f— themselves.8. They allegedly described the payment of their family dental bills as a charitable contribution to Smiles for Life.”9. Margaret Hunter allegedly bought plane tickets for her mother and her mothers boyfriend to go to Warsaw. She told the campaign it was for events in New Orleans and Kentucky.10. Hunter allegedly used campaign funds to go a personal ski trip to Lake Tahoe when his family bank account had a negative balance and his personal bank account had $35. (He withdrew $20 from his personal bank account while there, the indictment alleges.)Among the sloppier revelations from the indictment are allegations that Hunter, a former Marine, claimed he was using campaign funds for charity.	Liberal
The phrase unindicted co-conspirator gained traction on social media Tuesday. It even appeared in the responses to the latest Twitter post from President Donald Trump about his upcoming rally in West Virginia.Why?People speculated Trump’s one-time personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, implicated the President when he pleaded guilty to eight charges: five charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations and one count of bank fraud. The guilty plea came as part of a deal with federal prosecutors in New York on Tuesday.If the campaign finance violations in particular involved the 2016 presidential campaign of Donald Trump, the President became an unindicted co-conspirator in the crimes to which Cohen pleaded guilty. Pundits and the public alike bandied about theories and possible scenarios.But Cohen’s attorney Lanny Davis took to Twitter around 6:00pm EST and removed all doubt. First he explained why his client took the actions he did Tuesday in federal court.“Michael Cohen took this step today so that his family can move on to the next chapter. This is Michael fulfilling his promise made on July 2nd to put his family and country first and tell the truth about Donald Trump.”Michael Cohen took this step today so that his family can move on to the next chapter. This is Michael fulfilling his promise made on July 2nd to put his family and country first and tell the truth about Donald Trump. Lanny Davis (@LannyDavis) August 21, 2018Then Davis asked a question many others find themselves contemplating Tuesday night when he stated:“Today he stood up and testified under oath that Donald Trump directed him to commit a crime by making payments to two women for the principal purpose of influencing an election. If those payments were a crime for Michael Cohen, then why wouldn’t they be a crime for Donald Trump?”Today he stood up and testified under oath that Donald Trump directed him to commit a crime by making payments to two women for the principal purpose of influencing an election. If those payments were a crime for Michael Cohen, then why wouldn’t they be a crime for Donald Trump? Lanny Davis (@LannyDavis) August 21, 2018Donald Trump remained conspicuously mum on the subject of Cohen as he deplaned Air Force One in West Virginia Tuesday evening. Trump expressed regret that Manafort’s situation ended the way it did saying “I feel very badly for Paul Manafort,” while asserting the verdict had “nothing to do with” him.Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani issued an official statement on the Cohen plea deal. He claimed:“There is no allegation of any wrongdoing against the President in the governments charges against Mr. Cohen. It is clear that, as the prosecutor noted, Mr. Cohens actions reflect a pattern of lies and dishonesty over a significant period of time.”According to the man actually at the Cohen proceedings today, his lawyer Lanny Davis, Giuliani’s statement is almost exactly opposite of what happened. But Giuliani also famously said “truth isn’t truth.” Giuliani also called Cohen “anhonest, honorable lawyer” in May.Social media pounced on the question of Trump’s possible status as an unindicted co-conspirator as the following reactions to Davis’ statements and directed at the President himself show.	Liberal
Birds in or near urban areas have long been known to augment their nests with found materials  from plastic bags and foil to electrical cables and cigarette butts. Though its hard not to see this as a depressing visual reminder of litter and sprawl, recent research has proven that cigarette butts in nests serve a remedial purpose not only for birds but for people, too.Last year, a group of scientists led by Monserrat Surez-Rodrguez and Constantino Macas Garcia of the National Autonomous University of Mexico found that birds were not only weaving smoked, torn-up cigarette butts into their nests to repel parasitic ticks, but they were doing it intentionally.In an on-campus experiment involving 32 wild pairs of nesting house finches, Surez-Rodrguez and Macas Garcia identified nests with eggs, waited until the eggs hatched, then swapped the nests  which typically measure three to seven inches wide, and two inches deep  with imitation felt nests lined with native material. To the new nests, the researchers added either live ticks, dead ticks or no ticks. Once the chicks had fledged, the researchers collected the nests and found that the finches had added cigarette butts only to the nests with live ticks. None of the nests with dead or no ticks had added butts, indicating that the birds were adding the cigarette butts specifically as fumigation agents. Because of nicotines known anti-parasite properties, especially against arthropods (invertebrates with an exoskeleton, such as insects, spiders, and crustaceans), the researchers found the butts did indeed repel ticks.Its fascinating, and an exciting example of animals being innovative and making use of the materials available to them, comparative ecophysiologist Steve Portugal of Royal Holloway, University of London, told New Scientist.Reduced numbers of ticks in bird nests not only lessens the risk of disease for the birds, as ticks carry more bacteria, viruses, and parasites than any other arthropod  including mosquitoes  but plays an important epidemiological role for people as well. It turns out birds in populated areas are reservoirs for Lyme disease, a long-ranging bacterial infection transmitted by ticks.So, does this mean smokers should start stockpiling butts under trees to save urban populations from Lyme disease? Not exactly, say the researchers. Turns out the cigarettes are still kind of bad for the birds.The butts cause [genetic] damage to finches by interfering with cell division, which we assessed by looking at their red blood cells, said Macias Garcia. However, some scientists still think the dangers of nicotine are still less than the benefits of keeping ticks away.I think the anti-parasite effects the cigarette butts provide must outweigh any negative problems they cause, said Portugal. Alternatively, the genotoxic effects take longer to manifest, and the adult birds arent aware of any problem.One thing everyone can likely agree on, however, is that the subject bears more research. Can the birds discern between smoked and unsmoked butts? Could they learn to incorporate a comparable, less harmful antiparasitic material? Hopefully, time will tell.It really makes me wonder: might these birds show a preference for cigarette brands high in nicotine? If they did, that might suggest this behaviour has truly evolved as an adaptive response to challenges from parasites, Timothy Mousseau, an ecologist at the University of South Carolina in Columbia, told Nature.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s former lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to eight criminal counts – five charges of felony tax evasion, two counts of campaign finance violations, and one count of bank fraud – in a deal struck with federal prosecutors in New York on Tuesday.BREAKING: Michael Cohen, President Trumps former personal attorney, will plead guilty to charges stemming from a federal investigation in New York. pic.twitter.com/qSe2LLJVIO— MSNBC (@MSNBC) August 21, 2018Counts seven and eight, two charges of campaign finance violations surrounding hush money payments made to silence women with whom Trump had alleged affairs, may implicate the president.Cohen reportedly told the court that “a candidate” directed him to violate campaign finance law. Cohen’s plea deal does not, however, include a promise to further cooperate with prosecutors.Cohen will be sentenced on December 12.Cohen made a $130,000 payment to adult film star Stephanie Clifford and paid Playboy model Karen McDougal $150,000 for her silence about affairs each of them claimed to have had with Trump a little more than a decade ago.Both women were forced to sign non-disclosure agreements along with their payments weeks before the 2016 presidential election.On Tuesday afternoon, Michael Avenatti, attorney for Clifford, masterfully trolled Trump’s TV lawyer Rudy Giuliani over the latest developments – which represent a serious blow to the president.“Buckle Up Buttercup,” Avenatti tweeted to Giuliani as news of Cohen’s plea deal broke. “You and your client completely misplayed this…”.@RudyGiuliani Buckle Up Buttercup. You and your client completely misplayed this… https://t.co/peLpswrDO1— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) August 21, 2018Avenatti also tweeted that Cohen’s guilty plea “should also permit us to proceed with an expedited deposition of Trump under oath about what he knew, when he knew it, and what he did about it.” Avenatti is Clifford’s counsel in civil litigation against the president.The developments of today will permit us to have the stay lifted in the civil case & should also permit us to proceed with an expedited deposition of Trump under oath about what he knew, when he knew it, and what he did about it. We will disclose it all to the public.— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) August 21, 2018He made a promise:We. Are. Coming. We are going to end this dumpster fire of a presidency one way or another. https://t.co/URJXR0aehx— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) August 21, 2018Followers of Avenatti noted that Cohen’s guilty plea extends beyond the president. Cohen served as the Republican Party’s finance chair until he resigned in June.Please…let's not forget that Cohen was the RNC Finance Chair up until a couple months ago. This ride is about to get bumpy for a whole lot of people, and it will all be well deserved.— Change Clothes (@changeclothesla) August 21, 2018Elliot Broidy Sean Hannity— Seekerini (@Seekerini) August 21, 2018Buckle up Buttercup haha. I love it — Fythia#Resist (@Fythia) August 21, 2018Right?  Best line of the day.— Talsma Girl (@TalsmaGirl67) August 21, 2018Potential consequences for the president did not go unnoticed.Trump is literally screwed from all sides except Russia— Ivica J. Biljan (@kucha688) August 21, 2018Theyll be Russian to spin this in a favorable manner, to Putin a context that they believe sounds good.  Excellent lawyering Rudy Giuliani, and thankfully truth isnt truth.— Tommy Juanso (@ResistMonsters) August 21, 2018Neither did Avenatti’s accurate predictions about how the Trump-Cohen legal tango would play out.Youve been 100% right about everything thats happened .— Henry C (@hnryFCB10) August 21, 2018As if Cohen’s plea deal weren’t enough of an existential threat to the president, Trump’s former campaign chair Paul Manafort was found guilty of eight felonies on Tuesday.	Liberal
Nikki Frieda Democrat running to be Florida’s next Agriculture Commissionerneeds to find a new bank for her campaign funds. Wells Fargociting Fried’s vocal support for medical marijuananotified her office any bank accounts affiliated with Fried’s campaign would be closed within 30 days of August 3, 2018.In a July 11, 2018 email, representative of Wells Fargofourth largest bank in the United StatesAntoinette Infante, a vice president and senior relationship manager, wrote:“As part of the onboarding of the client it was uncovered some information regarding the customers [sic] political platform and that they are advocating for expanding patient access to medical marijuana.”Fried’s campaign verified she indeed did support the use of medical cannabis and intended to continue to support it. In response, Wells Fargoin a letter dated August 3stated:“Periodically, we review our account relationships as part of our responsibility to oversee and manage banking risks. As a result of a recent review of your account relationship, we determined that we need to discontinue our business relationship and close the account above within 30 days from the date of this letter.”Nikki Fried made her strong support for medical marijuana very clear in her campaign materials posted on her campaign homepage and all of Fried’s social media accounts: Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and YouTube.Watch the Nikki Fried for Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services video below:Because of the federal level prohibition against marijuana use for any reason, many banking institutions refuse to accept legal marijuana industry companies as customers. They fear suffering negative repercussions from the federal government.However 30 states and Washington DC passed laws making medical cannabis legal. In addition,eight states and the District of Columbia adopted laws legalizing marijuana for recreational use.Florida law currently allows limited legal use of medical marijuana. Fried hopes to expand those limitations and because of that, Wells Fargo declared her campaign funds unwelcome at their bank.On Monday, Fried urged supporters to consider boycotting Wells Fargo for their decision to reject her campaign’s business. Fried stated:“This is absolutely unprecedented. I’ve been in this campaign since the beginning of June. Everybody in Florida knows that I’m one of the main proponents of the expansion of medical marijuana.”Christian Bax who served as Florida’s medical marijuana director until August 10 commented:“If a bank is going to start drawing a line based on a candidates particular advocacy, where does a bank draw that line? Is it going to extend to every candidate in Florida who advocates for medical marijuana?”Well Fargo specifically targeted Fried because of her vocal support for expanded medical cannabis access, but in the interest of fairness, should they not also question every other campaign doing business with them? Wells Fargo asked Fried’s campaign in their email dated July 11 to verify her support for medical marijuana.Wells Fargo closed a Florida politician’s campaign bank account & says it won’t do business with her, reportedly because she received political donations from “medical marijuana industry” lobbyists https://t.co/n8m0iiTk1J pic.twitter.com/jcPaJhxxpg Anna Massoglia (@annalecta) August 20, 2018Have they sent similar missives to all campaigns that use their banks? If they fail to do so, is it discrimination?In legal terms, discrimination requires disparate treatment. Disparate treatment means two or more individuals or groups falling under the same circumstancesin this case campaigns with bank accounts with Wells Fargoreceive different treatmentone is questioned about their campaign platform while others are not.In an official statement addressing only general policy, not Fried’s specific situation, Wells Fargo spokesperson Bridget Braxton asserted:“It is Wells Fargos policy not to knowingly bank or provide services to marijuana businesses or for activities related to those businesses, based on federal laws under which the sale and use of marijuana is illegal even if state laws differ. We continually review our banking relationships to ensure we adhere to strict regulatory and risk guidelines.”Wells Fargo may not want to risk doing business with a candidate that supports the expansion of the existing medical marijuana laws in Florida, but can they afford the public relations black eye?If social media users accurately indicate public opinion, Fried won the public perception battle with Wells Fargo as the following Twitter posts expressing support show.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s embattled former attorney and “fixer,” Michael Cohen reached a plea deal this afternoon with federal prosecutors of the Southern District of New York.Cohen had been under investigation for bank and tax fraud amounting to over 20 million dollars and, additionally, for his efforts to buy the silence of women who reportedly had affairs with Mr. Trump.Cohen surrendered to the FBI this afternoon before a court proceeding in which he pled guilty to five counts of tax fraud and one count of falsifying statements to a financial institution, as well as two counts of campaign finance violations. Cohen admitted in court to making the hush payments at Trump’s instruction.The terms of the plea reportedly have Cohen serving three to five years in federal prison. His sentencing is scheduled for December 12.According to sources, the plea deal does not mandate cooperation with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the possibility of collusion between Russian officials and Trump’s presidential campaign, however the man who once said he’d take a bullet for the president later pledged to put his family and country–not the president–first. Cohen will still be permitted to voluntarily assist the Special Counsel and Robert Mueller could recommend a reduction in his sentence.The news of Cohen’s likely prison sentence has resurrected a tweet of his from 2015:@HillaryClinton when you go to prison for defrauding America and perjury, your room and board will be free!— Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) December 20, 2015To which users are reacting with glee:In light of today's events, this tweet is pretty goddamn funny.— Bonoboism (@Bonoboism) April 9, 2018https://twitter.com/lynnemartist/status/983452237279178758To celebrate the Plea Agreement, which likely includes prison time for Michael Cohen, I thought it would be fun to reflect on this message Cohen Tweeted to Hillary Clinton on 12/19/15:"When you go to prison for defrauding America and perjury, your room and board will be free!"— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) August 21, 2018Looks like the free room and board is headed your way @MichaelCohen212  We will dance nightly outside your prison window.  #YouWillLookGoodInOrange https://t.co/pRVbmghzYr— AAdams (@FomentRebelli0n) August 21, 2018The agreement indicates a huge development in the Special Counsel’s investigation and brings to fruition efforts that made some of the biggest headlines of the year.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has long made it clear that he would like to see a military parade in Washington, and the White House was planning one for Veterans Day of this year until Donald Trump announced he was canceling the event.His reason: cost overruns, blaming “local politicians”:The local politicians who run Washington, D.C. (poorly) know a windfall when they see it. When asked to give us a price for holding a great celebratory military parade, they wanted a number so ridiculously high that I cancelled it. Never let someone hold you up! I will instead…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2018….attend the big parade already scheduled at Andrews Air Force Base on a different date, & go to the Paris parade, celebrating the end of the War, on November 11th. Maybe we will do something next year in D.C. when the cost comes WAY DOWN. Now we can buy some more jet fighters!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2018But turns out, according to Defense Department spokesman Colonel Rob Manning, that’s not the case after all.Manning told reporters at the Pentagon this week:The president was not briefed by any member of the Department of Defense on any cost associated with the parade.”It had been reported that the parade would cost an estimated $92 million to organize, well above the initial $12 million estimate.Naturally, the Defense Department’s statements have opened up the president to criticism, and he was derided as a liar.Trump lied. The Pentagon did NOT brief the president on parade costs before he cancelled it, as he claimed. #shocker #NoTrumpParadehttps://t.co/uUj0vCd8JG https://t.co/C1eFvAwEGr— VoteVets (@votevets) August 21, 2018Trump tweeted that he canceled the military parade because of the cost, but DOD says, The president was not briefed by any member of the Department of Defense on any cost associated with the parade https://t.co/JA8fYgyvkX— Robert Maguire (@RobertMaguire_) August 21, 2018From out of the mouth of Gen. Mattis himself!Can't call fake news on this one!HINT: Gen. Mattis is on video in this article!Pentagon contradicts President Trump, says he wasn't given military parade cost estimate before canceling it https://t.co/6PflWMNILI— lilefebvre " I Will Never Stand Down! " My #Resist (@lilefebvre) August 21, 2018Wait, wait, wait, does that mean Trump was lying in his tweet?  https://t.co/COnyaMpngs— Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) August 21, 2018@POTUS Another day another Trump lie!! Which means he also lied about the reason for the cancellation being Washington D.C. City Officials. Pentagon contradicts President Trump, says he wasn't given military parade cost estimate before canceling it https://t.co/QqmYb6CH72— Terry Berger (@MrsTLBerger) August 21, 2018The $92 million price tag for the event leaked to the media on Thursday, but Secretary of Defense James Mattis disputed it, telling reporters that whoever gave out that cost estimate is an idiot.”Colonel Manning on Thursday said that he could not confirm the $92 million amount, as the planning had not reached that level. and he had not been briefed on figures.Any figure that was cited was predecisional. The planning committee for the parade had not reached a point where they have briefed senior leadership in the department. It was moving forward, it had just not matured to that point, Manning said at the time.Manning repeated what the Pentagon said on Thursday: That the Pentagonwill now explore opportunities in 2019 to hold the parade.We are now going to look at providing options that will go up to the president for a decision for 2019, he said.	Liberal
Early on Tuesday, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to accuse Democratic New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio of stealing his 2020 presidential campaign slogan, “Promises Made, Promises Kept.”“That’s not at all nice,” Trump wrote of de Blasio, who is not currently campaigning for re-election (he was re-elected last year). “No imagination!”Bill DeBlasio, the high taxing Mayor of NYC, just stole my campaign slogan: PROMISES MADE  PROMISES KEPT! Thats not at all nice. No imagination! @foxandfriends— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 21, 2018De Blasio “appeared in front of a sign declaring Promises Made, Promises Kept at a groundbreaking for a new, 1000-seat school in East New York on Monday,” the New York Post reported. The mayor’s office said their use of the slogan was purely coincidental.“This is stupid,” City Hall spokesman Eric Phillips quipped. “Its not the most novel turn of phrase.”But as MSNBC producer Kyle Griffin noted, “Promises Made, Promises Kept” is not a Trump original. In fact, the president borrowed the phrase from President Bill Clinton’s re-election bid in 1996.pic.twitter.com/wi1ccPEe0t— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 21, 2018Chelsea Clinton responded to Griffin: “Perfect. Simply perfect.”Perfect. Simply perfect. https://t.co/sx1zFO5Yx2— Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) August 21, 2018And one Twitter user pointed out that “Promises Made, Promises Kept” was also used at the 1968Democratic National Convention.It was used in 1968 at the Democratic Convention too. pic.twitter.com/BZCz3ncdwf— Chris Harrison (@cdharrison) August 21, 2018Michigan Gov. John Engler (R) and Chicago MayorHarold Washington (D) used this slogan as well – decades ago.So did a mortgage company.Its the same slogan the mortgage company where I worked has had for 30 years.  SO ORIGINAL. pic.twitter.com/nuEVW0BXhH— hbmcg *give me your huddled masses* (@hbmcg) August 21, 2018Perhaps even more perfect is that Trump has usurped not one buttwo presidential campaign slogans – Clinton/Gore 1996 – and Ronald Reagan’s slogan in 1980: “Let’s Make America Great Again.” pic.twitter.com/y93fLIVJHW— Dustin Mauser (@DustinMauser) August 21, 2018No imagination pic.twitter.com/fJWxqp3oMb— Tuna (@2naOnWhite) August 21, 2018The White Nationalist newspaper The Crusader also employed “Make America Great Again.”https://twitter.com/SpockResists/status/1031930665057574912Another of Trump’s political catchphrases, “America First,” first appeared on a coin issued by the Ku Klux Klan.Get this guy some new writers pic.twitter.com/ZkN0Pr15o2— Tuna (@2naOnWhite) August 21, 2018Only fair, you stole the KKKs slogan. pic.twitter.com/MHNWmL8MK2— Barack Obama (@ThePresObama) August 21, 2018You stole "America First" from 1930s Nazi sympathizers.— Nunya  (@FoxFyreKit) August 21, 2018Trump has taken credit for other phrases as well. In October 2017, the president falsely boasted that he had invented the term “fake news.”Although it seems like ages ago, Trump claims he invented the word "Fake": https://t.co/fAficqkY98— Dan (@theworldisflatt) August 21, 2018Trump told CNN’s Lou Dobbs:I think one of the best names is  you know, I’ve really started this whole ‘fake news’ thing. Now they’ve turned it around and then, now, they’re calling, you know, stories put out by different  by Facebook ‘fake.“This is the opposite of what happened in real life on planet Earth,” wrote Callum Borchers of the Washington Post.Social media was ruthless in its mockery of the president.	Liberal
School shootings have become all too frequent in the United States. While tragedies like that of Marjorie Stoneman Douglas High School earlier this year still haven’t compelled lawmakers to pass meaningful gun legislation, businesses aren’t hesitating to profit off the fears of parents by marketing bulletproof accessories.On Monday, Fox Business Network promoted a line of bulletproof backpacks and sweaters from MC Armor during a back to school segment. After introducing the segment with the song “Bulletproof” by La Roux, hostMaria Bartiromo and MC Armor spokespersonCarolina Ballesteros Casas began to tout the products.Fox Business back-to-school segment glamorizes bulletproof backpacks and clothing for kids https://t.co/6Ks670aEAn pic.twitter.com/HikywO9a7l— Media Matters (@mmfa) August 20, 2018While products like bulletproof blanketshave been growing in popularity, these items becoming a necessity is troubling for many Americans.Bartiromo briefly touched on this before diverting the subject back to the “fashion forward” backpacks:Oh, my goodness. It’s incredible that this has come to this, though, that we need bulletproof clothing. Some of these things are quite fashion forward.Many on social media found the segment unsettling.Bulletproof backpacks for children are neither fashionable nor fashion forward. They should be unnecessary.— Jonathan D (@JonathanYvr) August 20, 2018.@FOXNews is tone-deaf to reality. Watch as they glamorize bulletproof backpacks for children, and boast about potential profits for investors, so the gun industry can continue to promote their $31.8 billion-dollar industry, at the cost of innocent lives. #NeverAgain pic.twitter.com/HlmPPJgIed— Brianna Westbrook (@BWestbrookAZ8) August 20, 2018So….The solution to stopping school shootings isn't to limit the ability for people to acquire weapons that are used to kill people…Apparently, it's to make bullet proof backpacks. Yep, that's where we are at.https://t.co/NJVYCnaj7l— Alt WASO NPS (@AltWASONPS) August 21, 2018HOLY SHIT this Fox News segment on bulletproof clothing and backpacks for school shootings is absurdly tone-deaf  pic.twitter.com/dEeTavnAv1— jordan (@JordanUhl) August 20, 2018Callas mentioned that MC Armor, a Colombia based company, had marketed the backpacks specifically for the United States:In the U.S., sadly, there’s the guns, Everybody can have a gun. So, here, kids need to be protected, and we have the fact that there is some school issues, so we need to bring this to the United States.Callas also assured that the company had been working with pediatricians to determine the most effective protection:We have a company with the research and development, and the pediatricians said kids before 15 years [old]  they dont have fat, they dont have enough muscles, so they need to have hard ballisticsThe segment has led many to speak out against the marketing of bulletproof accessories as a long term solution for mass shootings. Among them, the artist La Roux whose song was used in the segment’s introduction.	Liberal
The 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump, makes no bones about the fact he is not much of a reader.But he used tokeep a copy of Hitler speechestitled My New Order or Meine Neue Ordnung detailing Hitler’s use of propagandaby his bedside according to first wife Ivana Trump. Trump later confirmed he owned the book in an interview, but misidentified it as Hitler’sMein Kampf.When asked about the last book he read, Trump stated:“I read passages, I read areas, chapters, I dont have the time.”His Art of the Deal ghostwriter Tony Schwartz stated:“I seriously doubt that Trump has ever read a book straight through in his adult life.”Both Schwartz and the bestselling book’s publisher stated Trump contributed nothing to Art of the Deal. Schwartz claimed he read the book aloud to Trump to get his approval on it after giving the draft text to Trump for proofreading achieved no results.Reports out of the White House state formerly written briefings and reports poured overby the former administrations of both Bushes and Clinton and Obama now take the form of brief oral recitations because the 45th President refused to read anything longer than a page or a few paragraphs.This is in stark contrast to his immediate predecessor, 44th President Barack Obama, who recently shared his summer reading list on Facebook.CNN sought to compare the literary tastes of the two leaders so they took to Twitter to see what books Trump recommended to his followers and shared them side by side.And well, it is quite a study in contrasts.The books Obama recommended:The list of books Trump recommended this year:The Twitter reactions to the two lists are as expected based on both men’s reputations for reading and intellectualism as the following tweets show.	Liberal
President Donald Trump considered revoking Barack Obama’s access to intelligence briefings last year, according to a report in the New Yorker published on Monday. Trump and some of his advisers at the time reportedly saw “former Obama Administration officials as powerful enemies who threatened the new Presidents rule.”Trump considered revoking Obama's security clearance *last year* but was talked out of it by McMaster https://t.co/Wylg7UgwXI pic.twitter.com/fyo1FmDNKw— Ryan McCarthy (@mccarthyryanj) August 20, 2018On Tuesday, Trump responded to the “very tired” New Yorker story on Twitter, calling the report “fake news” and that “never discussed or thought of” revoking Obama’s intelligence briefings.Fake News, of which there is soooo much (this time the very tired New Yorker) falsely reported that I was going to take the extraordinary step of denying Intelligence Briefings to President Obama. Never discussed or thought of!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 21, 2018The article highlighted the contentious history between Trump and former CIA Director John Brennan, whose security clearance was revoked by the White House last week. Brennan’s public criticism of Trump began right before his inauguration after Trump, in a tweet, accused American intelligence agencies of “leakingChristopher Steeles dossier to the press and asked, ‘Are we living in Nazi Germany?”Brennan decided to break his silence in March of 2017 after Trump claimed Obama had wiretapped him and his Manhattan headquarters, Trump Tower. “How low has President Obama gone to tapp[sic] my phones during the very sacred election process,” Trump wrote. “This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!”Adam Entous of the New Yorker wrote that in early spring of 2017, “the White House saw former Obama Administration officials as powerful enemies who threatened the new Presidents rule, and they agitated for punishing them by revoking their security clearances.”As Trump stepped up his public and private attacks on Obama, some of the new Presidents advisers thought that he should take the extraordinary step of denying Obama himself access to intelligence briefings that were made available to all of his living predecessors.Currently, several Obama-era officials are in danger of having their security clearances revoked. All of these individuals are connected to the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and the alleged relationship between Trump’s campaign and Russia.It was then-National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster, Entous said, who “rebuffed” this idea and extended the security clearances “of his predecessors at the N.S.C., Republicans and Democrats alike.” Some of Trump’s advisors at the time, Entous reported, suggested suspending Obama’s access to intelligence briefings. Trump had reportedly considered doing this until McMaster convinced him of the importance of keeping former presidents informed.“In the end, Trump decided not to exclude Obama, at the urging of McMaster.” McMaster resigned in March 2018.Brennan’s security clearance was revoked last week after he published an Op-Ed in the New York Times describing Trump’s claims of “no collusion” with Russia as “hogwash.”One social media user said Obama has been trying to “sabotage” Trump’s presidency.You should seriously consider it. He is using Intel or faking Intel to sabotage your administration— 1 Nation Under God With Liberty & Justice 4 All (@kathie138) August 21, 2018It was met with immediate pushback.Trump doesn't need Obama or anyone else to "sabotage" his presidency. He does a fine job of sabotaging it himself.— Rowan McCullen (@Robiwanobi) August 21, 2018Trump is doing that all by himself— ALF (@ARed223) August 21, 2018And few are buying the “fake news” argument the president loves to make.	Liberal
A new Monmouth University poll has found that 35 percent of Americans believe the country is going in the “right” direction. By contrast, that same poll found that 57 percent of Americans believe the country is going in the “wrong” direction, and that could spell trouble for President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress who want to maintain control of both levels of the legislative branch.“These results are basically in line with Monmouths findings over the past few months,” Monmouth notes, “although they are slightly more negative than Junes 40% right direction and 53% wrong track rating.”Additionally, Monmouth reports that the president’s overall approval rating stands at43 percent approve and 50 percent disapprove. These numbers are “basically in line” with where President Trump’s approval rating has been since January, though “they are slightly more negative than the last Monmouth poll taken immediately after the presidents meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in June (43% approve and 46% disapprove).”Opinions on some of the president’s policy initiatives also indicate how divided many people are on the president’s job performance:The latestMonmouth University Pollalso tracked public opinion on a couple of major administration initiatives. Regarding Trumps decision to impose tariffs on a range of products imported from our trading partners, more say this will hurt (38%) rather than help (28%) the U.S. economy. Another 4% feel this will have no impact and 29% are unsure. This marks only a small improvement since June, when 40% said Trumps tariffs would hurt the national economy and 25% said they would help.The poll also finds that 37% of the public approve of the tax reform plan passed by Congress last year while a larger 45% disapprove. Another 18% are not sure how they feel. These results are similar to the 34% approve and 41% disapprove rating the tax plan received in June. Polls earlier this year showed the public to be more evenly divided on the tax plan  40% approve to 44% disapprove in April, 41% approve to 42% disapprove in March, and 44% approve to 44% disapprove in January.The poll notes that much recent news has focused more on the president’s circle of advisers rather than his policies, and the spate of negative news coveragethe president’s feud with former adviser Omarosa Manigault Newman, for examplehas many Americans convinced that Trump hires, as he has often claimed, only “the best people.”Just 30 percent of those surveyed say Trump does hire the best people, but a majority58 percentsay he does not. 7 percent say that “the quality of his hiring choices has been mixed.” And while 67 percent of those who identify as Republicans believe Trump does hire the best people, 18 percent of Republicans disagree, however. The overwhelming majority of Democrats surveyed93 percentsay Trump does not hire the best people.The scandalssurrounding the president’s advisers have many Americans convinced that White House advisers and staff can’t do their jobs, with 13 percent saying they are “not too confident” in the job performance of the president’s staff and a plurality of 42 percent saying they are “not at all confident.” Few people are “very confident” (19 percent) and only slightly more say they are “somewhat confident” in the president’s advisers. 79 percent of Democrats say they are “not at all confident” in White House staff compared to 50 percent of Republicans who say they are “very confident.”Some observers who were lukewarm about the prospect of a Trump presidency believed that a decent set of advisers would keep him on an even keel. However, fully four in ten Americans have no confidence whatsoever in the people currently advising the President of the United States. That cannot be good, said Patrick Murray, director of the independent Monmouth University Polling Institute.Omarosa Manigault Newman, the formerApprentice contestant whose book,Unhinged: An Insider’s Account of the Trump White House,has dominated headlines over the last week, is an example of a lackluster presidential appointment. 54 percent of those surveyed feel that the president “did not show good judgment” when he hired Manigault Newman to work in the White House. Comparatively, only 17 percent believe the appointment “showed good judgment” and 28 percent offered no opinion whatsoever. Even Republicans are divided on the matter, with 45 percent saying Trump’s decision to hire Manigault Newman was a “mistake” rather than “a show of good judgment on Trump’s part.”	Liberal
President Donald Trump made waves on Monday at a White House event honoring border patrol agents.The president singled out a Hispanic American Customs & Border Protection officer for his bravery. As the officer made his way to the stage, the president said:Come here, you’re not nervous are you? Speaks perfect English.You can watch it below:WATCH: President Trump invites a border patrol agent to speak at a White House event honoring immigration officers: "Come here; you're not nervous, right? Speaks perfect English." pic.twitter.com/AuMBpGs1U4— MSNBC (@MSNBC) August 20, 2018The statement was promptly met with outrage, with many on social media pointing out what the statement implied.I've never spoken perfect English a day in my life, and neither has the President. But I'm sure I know what the President finds remarkable about Adrian's use of the language.— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) August 20, 2018Trump, calling an Hispanic looking-immigration BP agent: "Come here. You're not nervous, right? Speaks perfect English."This is the thing that impressed Trump: not that he saved people from human trafficking.That the brown guy could speak English.pic.twitter.com/m1qlJkF66J— Holly Figueroa O'Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) August 20, 2018Heress Trump introducing a border patrol officer, who appears to be Hispanic and says he speaks perfect English. Racist much? #trumpmustgo pic.twitter.com/SKuOsWWm88— Charlie (@Charlieresists) August 20, 2018Others pointed out that the president’s own English skills seem sub-par, despite his claims to have “the best words.”@realDonaldTrump  What would this President know about perfect English?— mdw831 (@mdw8311) August 20, 2018He spoke perfect English unlike the President who speaks gibberish.— Tom Street (@tmstreet) August 20, 2018He speaks perfect English, unlike @realDonaldTrump.— *you're (@RKJ65) August 20, 2018Too bad the *president doesnt speak perfect English.— Gina Bradbury (@screaminggina) August 20, 2018This is hardly the first time the president has dropped the ball when it comes to interactions with people of color. He caught flack for a now-infamous Cinco de Mayo tweet during the 2016 campaign.Happy #CincoDeMayo! The best taco bowls are made in Trump Tower Grill. I love Hispanics! https://t.co/ufoTeQd8yA pic.twitter.com/k01Mc6CuDI— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 5, 2016He even began his campaign by insulting undocumented immigrants, saying in a speech:When Mexico sends its people, theyre not sending their best. Theyre not sending you. Theyre not sending you. Theyre sending people that have lots of problems, and theyre bringing those problems with us. Theyre bringing drugs. Theyre bringing crime. Theyre rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.Nor are his microaggressions limited to Hispanic people. Trump used a Navajo veterans event at the White House last year as an opportunity to take a jab at Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), using the slur “Pocahontas.”here is the video of Trump calling Elizabeth Warren 'Pocahontas' at an event honoring Native American veterans. cringy pic.twitter.com/FrbMSBXM7L— Alazar Moges (@zarzarbinkss) November 27, 2017However, it wasn’t just the president’s insensitivity that cast a shadow over today’s White House event.	Liberal
On Monday during a White House ceremony dubbed the “Salute to the Heroes”, President Donald Trump sought to pay tribute to members of the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agencies of the Department of Homeland Security.Not all went according to plan however when the President, while attempting to honor one of the CBP Border Patrol officers, Trump called the Hispanic man identified as Adrian Anzalduato the podium while joking that the officer was not nervous. Trump enthusiastically told the gathered crowd:“He speaks perfect English!”Trump’s impromptu comment drew heavy criticism for racial and ethnic profiling. A Hispanic man being honored for his involvement in thwarting human trafficking having his grasp of the English language listed as a major accomplishmentbased on the false assumption that Hispanics typically cannot speak “perfect English”angered many online.Trump, calling an Hispanic looking-immigration BP agent: “Come here. You’re not nervous, right? Speaks perfect English.”This is the thing that impressed Trump: not that he saved people from human trafficking.That the brown guy could speak English.pic.twitter.com/m1qlJkF66J Holly Figueroa O’Reilly (@AynRandPaulRyan) August 20, 2018While many took exception to what they viewed as another example of Trump’s awkward interactions with minorities, others pointed out the President’s own grasp of the English language is not very firm.One of those detractors was English author J.K. Rowling of Harry Potter fame. In response to Trump’s comment, Rowling posted:“Study hard, Mr President, and I might one day say the same about you.”Study hard, Mr President, and I might one day say the same about you. https://t.co/Yii3LPPNjG J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) August 20, 2018Others online shared the same sentiment for a man who misspelled the word counsel for the fifth time on Twitter Monday.Trump just introduced a border agent and proclaimed he “speaks perfect English.” Sadly, the border agent couldn’t return the compliment. Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) August 20, 2018The President refers to the Special “Councel” and his White House “Councel.”The failing @nytimes wrote a Fake piece today implying that because White House Councel Don McGahn was giving hours of testimony to the Special Councel, he must be a John Dean type RAT. But I allowed him and all others to testify – I didnt have to. I have nothing to hide…… Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 19, 2018Counsel and council are recognized words in the English language. Councel is not.Nobody will ever introduce Trump with, He speaks perfect English. Schooley (@Rschooley) August 20, 2018Baby steps. Lets start with Trump spelling counsel correctly. TrentaCapelli (@OkCallMeAL) August 20, 2018People on Twitter then shared their appreciation for Rowling’s comebacks aimed at the 45th President and his tweets.	Liberal
Actor Chris Evans, a.k.a Captain America, shredded President Donald Trump on Twitter Monday afternoon after the president misspelled “counsel” while referencing White House Counsel Don McGahn, who, it was revealed over the weekend, has given more than 30 hours of witness testimony to Special Counsel Robert Mueller.Trump tweeted Monday morning that “White House Councel” had met with Mueller “only with my approval, for purposes of transparency.”Disgraced and discredited Bob Mueller and his whole group of Angry Democrat Thugs spent over 30 hours with the White House Councel, only with my approval, for purposes of transparency. Anybody needing that much time when they know there is no Russian Collusion is just someone….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 20, 2018Evans blasted the president’s typo. “Its counsel, Biff,” Evans wrote. “The word is counsel.'” Evans laid into the president for screwing up a word he must be quite familiar with by now.Its counsel, Biff. The word is counsel.I was trying to comprehend how in the world a man, even as moronic as you, can misspell a word he probably reads fifty times a day. But then it dawned on me, you probably only HEAR the word.You dont read shit.And we all know it. https://t.co/7zZGZRZtkF— Chris Evans (@ChrisEvans) August 20, 2018Trump has a propensity for tweeting misspelled words, especially when he does so out of anger or frustration. Last month, Trump tweeted about his wife, “Melanie,” rather than Melania. In other instances, Trump has deleted the typo-ridden tweets, which is a violation of the Presidential Records Act.Over the weekend, the New York Times reported that McGahn has given more than 30 hours of witness testimony to Mueller, though the president maintains his lawyer was acting at his behest.Twitter lauded Evans on his chastising of Trump, whose sloppy tweets continue to embarrass the American public.Evans “snapped.” Can’t blame him.Chris SNAPPED!! pic.twitter.com/3aCGnUiBnk—  (@nsteverogers) August 20, 2018not yet…we'll know he's truly snapped when he breaks into Marvel Studios to steal the Cap Suit and punch Biff in the Face….— *yelling into the quantum realm* (@TehMomo) August 20, 2018rolling up to the White House like… pic.twitter.com/LFVG2zYZjq— *yelling into the quantum realm* (@TehMomo) August 20, 2018When Eric and Don Jr pipe up… pic.twitter.com/XZYgN8QEqQ— Deven (@devdam2021nu) August 20, 2018Captain America for president?CHRIS EVANS FOR PRESIDENT— YO IO I EE! (@DemonicGurl24) August 20, 2018Omg i love this thank you— Aeryn (@aerynevenstar) August 20, 2018You are right.  Again. pic.twitter.com/VyTAJ6ehuQ— Chris Evans USA (@ChrisEvans_USA) August 20, 2018Others responded directly to Trump, unhappy with his mistreatment of accomplished figures like Mueller.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s attorney Rudy Giuliani attempted to walk back his declaration that“truth isn’t truth,” claiming that his statements were not meant to be taken as a “pontification on moral theology.”My statement was not meant as a pontification on moral theology but one referring to the situation where two people make precisely contradictory statements, the classic he said,she said puzzle. Sometimes further inquiry can reveal the truth other times it doesnt.— Rudy Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani) August 20, 2018Giuliani, who has often served as a surrogate for the president to dispense thoughts on Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, also disparaged former FBI director James Comey, referring to him as a “proven leaker” and calling his performance as FBI director “disgraceful.”Since proven leaker Comey is now sanctimoniously lecturing us on truth, I can say sometimes the truth is clear its the opposite of what Jim Coney is saying. His disgraceful performance with the FBI makes him the last person who should pontificate on truth.— Rudy Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani) August 20, 2018Comey responded soon afterward.“If we are untethered to truth, our justice system cannot function and a society based on the rule of law dissolves,” he wrote, in part.Truth exists and truth matters. Truth has always been the touchstone of our countrys justice system and political life. People who lie are held accountable. If we are untethered to truth, our justice system cannot function and a society based on the rule of law dissolves.— James Comey (@Comey) August 19, 2018Giuliani, a former New York City mayor, told NBC’s Chuck Todd that President Trump would not be pressured into testifying as part of Mueller’s probe.What I have to tell you is I am not going to be rushed into having him testify so he gets trapped into perjury, he said. When you tell me that he should testify because he is going to tell the truth and he shouldnt worry, thats silly because its somebodys version of the truth. Not the truth.When Todd pointed out that “truth is truth,” Giuliani virulently disagreed.No, it isnt truth. Truth isnt truth,” he told Todd. “Dont do this to me! Donald Trump says I didnt talk about Flynn with Comey. Comey says you did talk about itso tell me what the truth is?Which is the truth, maybe you know because you are a genius?Chuck Todd: "Truth is truth. I don't mean to go"Rudy Giuliani: "No, it isn't truth! Truth isn't truth!" pic.twitter.com/j8H1CIol5u— Axios (@axios) August 19, 2018Giuliani’s statements have not gone over well on social media, and many found his attempts at clarification sorely lacking.And you know quite well that if one person says A and the other says B, and there's no evidence to support either, the law doesn't just pick one and then charge the other with perjury. Even with evidence, not every lie equals a perjury charge.— Steph Bazzle (@imjustasteph) August 20, 2018You're trying to influence public opinion by demeaning Mueller and his team, and the FBI. The damage to democracy and the rule of law is the price you and Trump are happy to pay. From America's Mayor to Trump's Toady, quite the fall from grace! There is no going back, you know.— Sharon Allen (@emmaline1221) August 20, 2018Simple solution.  Have all witnesses sworn in, and let's hear public testimony and cross-examine from Trump and others.But oh that's right, Trump won't even agree to an interview.I remember when we watched real leaders, innocent leaders, testifying live on TV for 11 hours— RiotWomenn (@riotwomennn) August 20, 2018You want to sell the lies and we know it. You have made yourself someone who can not be believed when they speak. Which is not good for you since you know at some point the eye of justice will be on you.— Lauren Down South (@LaurenDownSouth) August 20, 2018No. The truth is the truth. When 2 people make contradictory statements about something that can be proven, one is at best incorrect, at worst lying through their teeth. Thanks.— Jim Pennington (@jim_pennington) August 20, 2018The president, meanwhile, has continued to assail Mueller and his investigation.	Liberal
As predicted by economists and the bipartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) prior to their implementation, the Republican backed Trump tax cuts for the wealthiest citizens are on target to balloon the federal deficit to levels never seen before in United States historyboth in sheer amount and in comparison to the gross domestic product.Now some GOP members of Congress and President Donald Trump look to cut social safety-net programs to close the gap.Programs like Social Security and Medicarefinanced by deductions from worker’s paychecksand Medicaid and SNAPproviding healthcare and food for the poorest citizensalong with other programs provide a social safety-net to keep people from starving, becoming homeless, freezing during the winter or dying from untreated health issues.But New York Times writer Nick Confessore contends the longstanding GOP desire to cut or eliminate social programs that help the poor, created the tax cuts for the wealthy and not the other way around.Responding to a tweet by CNBC political editor Mike Calia who posted:“GOP Rep. Steve Stivers, a budget hawk when Obama was president, voted for Trump’s deficit-expanding tax cuts. Now, in an interview with @JohnJHarwood, he’s advocating for cuts to Social Security and Medicare as a way to trim the deficit.”GOP Rep. Steve Stivers, a budget hawk when Obama was president, voted for Trump’s deficit-expanding tax cuts. Now, in an interview with @JohnJHarwood, he’s advocating for cuts to Social Security and Medicare as a way to trim the deficit. https://t.co/z7VWXyRJGk Mike Calia (@Michael_Calia) August 20, 2018Confessore stated:“The political strategy: Deliberately deficit-financed tax cuts as a justification for future safety-net cuts.”The political strategy: Deliberately deficit-financed tax cuts as a justification for future safety-net cuts. https://t.co/bsm6yWmRPE Nick Confessore (@nickconfessore) August 20, 2018The GOP received the same indictment when they cut veterans benefits and programs. Everyone knew the Trump tax cuts for the wealthiest individuals and corporations would not benefit anyone but the people receiving the tax cuts.But to avoid the political suicide of making deep cuts to veterans programs and Social Security and Medicare requires a financial crisis. Create a huge deficit then cut programs because there is “no funding” and “no choice.”2016 Rep controlled House Appropriations Subcommittee slashed $1.4 Billion from Veterans Affairs funding & $582 Mil of VAs high priority construction projects2017 Republicans cut Dept of VA $460 Mil program for homeless Veterans2018 Trump donates $100k to make up for it Pennyless Church (@PennylessChurch) August 20, 2018The economy was growing the whole time under Obama. Trump is taking away healthcare benefits from Veterans. He does get paid, every quarter; he may choose to donate it (although all the donees are still waiting for their check) but he still gets paid. Dawn Margeson (@Real_Blvdbabe) August 20, 2018The economy did not grow under Obama. President Trump IS NOT taking healthcare from Veterans, and I have first hand knowledge of that. He DOES NOT get paid. Period. Check your facts before you post things that are not facts. ?????WeepaysMom? (@WeepayWise) August 20, 2018I am a veteran and I am personally experiencing the cuts!!! He is cutting dental care & has cut back on womens mental health care; women have to go longer in between screenings that ysed to be annual. The Choice program is gone & long waits are back. Dawn Margeson (@Real_Blvdbabe) August 20, 2018People on Twitter agreed with Confessore’s assessment of why the GOP and Trump pushed their tax cuts knowing it would not help the middle or lower classes or the economy as the following comments show.	Liberal
First Lady Melania Trump appeared to have knocked her husband’s online behavior while delivering a speech on cyber-bullying on Monday.WATCH: First lady Melania Trump hosts anti-bullying event in Rockville, MD. https://t.co/TOPkEebQL5— ABC News (@ABC) August 20, 2018Speaking at theFederal Partners on Bullying Prevention, an anti-bullying event in Rockville, Maryland, the First Lady said even though children are well-versed in the boons of social media, it’s up to the adults to ensure “successful and safe online habits.”“Lets face itmost children are more aware of the benefits and pitfalls of social media than some adults,” she said. “But we still need to do all we can to provide them with information and tools for successful and safe online habits.”“Some adults…”She continued:I encourage technology and social media companies, schools and community groups, to establish more opportunities for children such as Microsofts Council for Digital Good,” the First Lady said. By listening to childrens ideas and concerns, I believe adults will be better able to help them navigate this often-difficult topic.The First Lady also said that abusive behavior on social media is “harmful and destructive.” Trump was promoting her “Be Best” anti-bullying campaign, which she launched in May.“This is whyBe Bestchooses to focus on the importance of teaching our next generation how to conduct themselves safely and in a positive manner in an online setting,” Trump said, talking about the necessity of positive online interaction.The First Lady praised students for their “deep understanding of how important it is to be safe” online. She said she was also “inspired by their sincere commitment to reducing peer-to-peer bullying through kindness and open communication.”But the First Lady’s passionate call for tolerance are at odds with President Donald Trump’s behavior, particularly on Twitter. Last week, the president referred to former White House aide Omarosa Manigault-Newman as a “dog,” and has habitually berated his critics via the online platform.CNN’s Poppy Harlow pointed out that despite her husband’s behavior, the First Lady remains steadfast in her pursuit of ending cyber-bullying.“The elephant in the room, of course, is the cyber-bullying that her husband, the president, engages in on a daily basis,” Harlow said. “She has said before, you know when she said in March, I know people are skeptical about me talking about this issue but thats not going to stop me, and it hasnt.”Kate Brower, a CNN contributor and author ofFirst Women: The Grace and Power of America’s Modern First Ladies,told Harlow that “some adults,” as Trump phrased it, was in reference to the president.“You could think of it as a veiled message to her husband, right?” Brower said. “And she has asked him to tone down his tweeting, to maybe consider stop tweeting so often, but its been clear that PresidentDonald Trump will do whatever he wantsno matter what his wife may suggest.”You just have to wonder what shes thinking through all this. Because its obviously a message she is committed to delivering even though she knows that there are charges of hypocrisy.https://twitter.com/espy25/status/1031532853048340482As the First Lady was speaking, the president fired off a couple of tweets in which heagain disparaged former CIA Director John Brennan, whose security clearance Trump pulled last week out of political spite, as well Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, reverting to calling it a “rigged witch hunt.”I hope John Brennan, the worst CIA Director in our countrys history, brings a lawsuit. It will then be very easy to get all of his records, texts, emails and documents to show not only the poor job he did, but how he was involved with the Mueller Rigged Witch Hunt. He wont sue!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 20, 2018Everybody wants to keep their Security Clearance, its worth great prestige and big dollars, even board seats, and that is why certain people are coming forward to protect Brennan. It certainly isnt because of the good job he did! He is a political hack.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 20, 2018Social media had mixed reactions to the First Lady’s speech.	Liberal
President Donald Trump made startling claims at a fundraising event in New York over the weekend, criticizing windmills as a source of renewable energy, advocating for coal instead.Trump has long been a proponent of revitalizing the waning coal industry, despite increasing concerns over the logistics and environmental consequences of coal mining and power as countries across the globe begin a transition to renewable energy.But this rant about why coal should remain king is bizarre even for him.Trump goes on a bizarre anti-windmill rant, including mimicking a terrorist shooting one of them down pic.twitter.com/2qyjer8C37— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) August 13, 2018Trump started out railing against windmills — and pipelines for that matter — because “you can blow up the windmills.” But know what the real danger for windmills is: birds.“If the birds don’t kill it first. The birds could kill it first. They kill so many birds. You look underneath some of those windmills, it’s like a killing field.”Did you notice his weird sound effects?Trumps remarks about coal and wind and birds and him making sound effects about various energy sources being blown up is the unhinged babbling of someone who is not well and certainly shouldnt be in charge of the most powerful nuclear arsenal on Earth. Transcript via @ddale8 pic.twitter.com/kKhubSZ8Yj— Brian Klaas (@brianklaas) August 20, 2018The president’s hatred of windmills is nothing new, of course.Trump is obsessed with windmills. He has more than once brought the topic up with foreign leaders and ranted about how windmills are responsible for the deaths of birds, esp eagles. The real reason is probably that they block the view on his golf courses https://t.co/rULhsa8WEJ— Tom Wright (@thomaswright08) August 19, 2018Although he does apparently have his reasons.Trump only hates windmills because he felt they ruined the aesthetics of his Scottish golf course, and when he threw a tantrum they didn't put up with his shite. They think he's a *checks notes* cunt. https://t.co/YryyN7xkI7— Emma Evans (@TrancewithMe) August 20, 2018Trump hates windmills. pic.twitter.com/5IAfC4I5ws— Rich Halliburton  (@RichHalliburton) August 20, 2018Except there are some problems with Trump’s advocacy for coal:He failed to mention that coal can be set on fire and it can burn for years underground. Just wanted to remind everyone, once coal starts burning underground, it's hard to extinguish.— Just Man (@oldmanjust1) August 19, 2018Full of (bird) shit: "Donald Trump doesn't like dogs, but he cares about birds so much he is moved to revive the coal industry. The cost of green energy on bird-life is apparently too great." https://t.co/Zp30K6KTPE #MoronPresident— Democratic Coalition (@TheDemCoalition) August 20, 2018While it’s true that windmills kill hundreds of thousands of birds a year, the number is small compared to the millions of bird deaths from cell phone towers and billions from cats. What’s more, hundreds of bird species are becoming endangered due to the threat of climate change, which is exacerbated by carbon-basedenergy sources such as coal.That threat is likely to become more pronounced in the near future.	Liberal
Monday in his regular morning Twitter storm, President Donald Trump again took aim at Special Counsel Robert Mueller. Trump’s Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed Republican Muellerdecorated United States Marine Corps Vietnam veteran and respected retired law enforcement professionalto head the Department of Justice (DoJ) investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.Since then, Mueller and his team of prosecutors from the DoJwho Trump always refers to as “Angry Dems” or “Angry Democrats” despite their actual political affiliation being unknown to the publicfrequently feature in the President’s Twitter attacks.On Monday, Trump accused them of attempting to sway the 2018 midterm elections slated for Tuesday, November 6, 2018, in two early morning tweets. Trump stated:“Disgraced and discredited Bob Mueller and his whole group of Angry Democrat Thugs spent over 30 hours with the White House Councel[sic], only with my approval, for purposes of transparency. Anybody needing that much time when they know there is no Russian Collusion is just someone……..looking for trouble. They are enjoying ruining peoples lives and REFUSE to look at the real corruption on the Democrat side – the lies, the firings, the deleted Emails and soooo much more! Muellers Angry Dems are looking to impact the election. They are a National Disgrace!”Disgraced and discredited Bob Mueller and his whole group of Angry Democrat Thugs spent over 30 hours with the White House Councel, only with my approval, for purposes of transparency. Anybody needing that much time when they know there is no Russian Collusion is just someone…. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 20, 2018….looking for trouble. They are enjoying ruining peoples lives and REFUSE to look at the real corruption on the Democrat side – the lies, the firings, the deleted Emails and soooo much more! Muellers Angry Dems are looking to impact the election. They are a National Disgrace! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 20, 2018The accusation struck people’s sense of irony for two reasons.The first most immediately obvious reason involves the purpose of the DoJ opening an investigation and eventually appointing a Special Counsel to head that investigationto keep it free from pressure or interference from within the DoJ or the White House. Through a series of now substantiated and proven actions, Russia attempted to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and continues to try to interfere and influence world politics mainly through cyber attacks and secret private meetings with foreign government officials or members of candidate’s families.TRANSLATION: Looking for trouble, they are enjoying ruining guilty peoples lives as they look at the real corruption on the GOP side – lies, firings, deleted Emails, Russian bribes, Russian meetings and so much more! The GOP are a National Disgrace! https://t.co/jIqxlz6XeF The Trump Translator ?? (@TrumpTranslato) August 20, 2018pic.twitter.com/b47AeUI6nE Eater of Souls #VetsResistSquadron (@EaterSouls) August 20, 2018Point of fact: Bob Mueller is doing the job YOUR justice department hired him to do. He has never said even ONE word about you publicly (negatively or positively) but he has secured (so far) guilty pleas from 5 defendants. And indicted 35 people on 94 counts. Why do you hate him? RealHarryWiddifield (@HarryWiddifield) August 20, 2018But the second pointgiven it relates to events almost two years agoescaped many people’s notice.Back in October of 2016, just about 10 days before what would prove to be a very close presidential electionwhere Democrat Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by over 3 million votes but Republican Donald Trump won the electoral votethen Republican Director of the FBI, James Comey, publicly announced the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server would be reopened.Reactions to the announcement were mixed, but then candidate Trump’s response was clear as shown in the following tweets.	Liberal
Former Fox News analyst Lieutenant Colonel Ralph Peters blasted the conservative network’s incessant positive coverage of President Donald Trump, telling CNN’s Brian Stelter on Sunday that Fox “prostitutes” itself on behalf of Trump’s agenda.Stelter asked Peters: “How much do you blame your former network Fox News? Are they at fault for propping up Trump?”“Of course,” Peters said. “I left Fox because as a former military officer who took an oath to the constitution, I could not be part of a channel that, to me, was assaulting the constitution, the constitutional order, the rule of law.”“Fox isnt immoral, its amoral,” Peters added. “It was opportunistic. Trump was just a gift to Fox and Fox, in turn, is a gift to Trump. Its a closed loop. And so people that only listen to Fox have an utterly skewed view of reality.”Stelter: “Do you think your former colleagues are proud of their performances?”“The polite word is prostitutes,” Peters added. “So, well just leave it at that. I dont want to be the go-to guy for Fox bashing forever. But what Fox is doing is causing real harm to our country right now.”Peters had harsh words for Trump and the Republican Party as well.The president “is not interested in understanding our government,” Peters told CNN. “He believes the Constitution is a menu from which he can choose only the most delectable items.”Peters said Trump’s behavior leads him to believe Trump is in the pocket of Russian President Vladimir Putin.Trump and Fox News need and feed off each other, a former analyst for the network said https://t.co/6oZ5oCJXps pic.twitter.com/TEFNYovOqg— Newsweek (@Newsweek) August 20, 2018“The evil twin of that, I believe as a former Russia analyst for most of my career Im convinced that the president of the United States is in thrallto Vladimir Putin,” Peters continued. “Theres no other way to explain his behavior. And he perfectly fits the profile of the kind of people the Russians target.This is a distinctly un-American president who doesnt seem to like America very much. Inever could have foreseen this Orwellian situation.”You got it absolutely right Lt. Col. Ralph Peters @CNNPolitics @CNN @ReliableSources @ReliableSources— GlamGal (@GlamGal_77) August 19, 2018Peters described the Republican Party as “dormant,” having been taken over by “couch potato anarchists” who “don’t have a program to make America great again.”Twitter cheered Peters’ words:Lt. Col. Ralph Peters did not hold back. Loved this; it was like Mister Rogers goes Rambo.— lilly  (@linacantalupa) August 19, 2018BRING BACK COLONEL PETERS!  Great eloquence from someone who knows.— David Burhenn (@DavidBurhenn) August 19, 2018	Liberal
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) criticized House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) for his claim that Twitter was censoring conservative voices when the tweet he employed to bolster in claim was, in fact, withheld because of his own account settings.McCarthy had threatened to summon Twitter CEO Jack Dorseyto Congress to explain what is going on” after he took a screenshot of a tweet by Fox News personality Laura Ingraham which had been hidden due to “potentially sensitive content.”Another day, another example of conservatives being censored on social media, he tweeted. [Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey] easy fix: explain to Congress what is going on.#StopTheBias he wrote.Pelosi said McCarthy “chooses to perpetuate an outrageous conspiracy theory,” adding that he’s shown he “doesn’t know how to use the platform.”Rather than adjust his Twitter settings, Kevin McCarthy chooses to perpetuate an outrageous conspiracy theory. Shows he sadly doesn't know how to use the platform. That's insane. pic.twitter.com/sEwo1pkYLs— Nancy Pelosi (@TeamPelosi) August 19, 2018Many agreed.Purposeful stupidity seems to be the @GOP brand. Twist, parse, spin, lie; anything but deal with facts, truth, and doing what's best for the country and the citizens who pay their salaries and elect them to represent more than their own partisan agendas. #Sad— Lorraine Devon Wilke (@LorraineDWilke) August 19, 2018You should check out his MySpace page, its littered with photos of tapes he rented from Blockbuster.— YS (@NYinLA2121) August 19, 2018If you've ever heard Cong Kevin McCarthy speak, you know it's a pretty safe bet that he doesn't know there's such a thing as Twitter settings.— W. M. (@Minuteman04) August 19, 2018This is a good time to start considering competency checks and/or age limits for govt positions. It's hard to consider that someone is making laws for the modern era when their prime years were spent using slide rules instead of computers.— Jake Snowflake US House (@jake_snowflake) August 19, 2018This isn’t the first time the Republican has accused a company of shunning conservative voices. In May, McCarthy accused Google of bias against conservatives in an incident involving a search for the California Republican Party that listed Nazism as one of its ideologies. AsSplinternotes, the page for the California Republican Party “could have been amended by a simple Wikipedia edit.Sadly, this is just the latest incident in a disturbing trend to slander conservatives. These damaging actions must be held to account. #StopTheBias https://t.co/6ztyuc772s— Kevin McCarthy (@GOPLeader) May 31, 2018In recent days, President Donald Trump has also perpetuated the conspiracy, saying over the weekend that “Too many voices are being destroyed.”Social Media is totally discriminating against Republican/Conservative voices. Speaking loudly and clearly for the Trump Administration, we wont let that happen. They are closing down the opinions of many people on the RIGHT, while at the same time doing nothing to others…….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 18, 2018…..Censorship is a very dangerous thing & absolutely impossible to police. If you are weeding out Fake News, there is nothing so Fake as CNN & MSNBC, & yet I do not ask that their sick behavior be removed. I get used to it and watch with a grain of salt, or dont watch at all..— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 18, 2018….Too many voices are being destroyed, some good & some bad, and that cannot be allowed to happen. Who is making the choices, because I can already tell you that too many mistakes are being made. Let everybody participate, good & bad, and we will all just have to figure it out!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 18, 2018The president made similar claims last month, too.	Liberal
Donald Trump has been jonesing for a big military parade down the streets of Washington, D.C. ever since French President Emmanuel Macron showed him how Paris celebrates Bastille Day.So the White House set about planning such a parade for November 10th of this year.That is until cost details of the planning leaked, and it was revealed that the parade would cost upwards of $92 million, approximately $80 million more than originally estimated.A Pentagon official told CNBC the expected costs for President Trump's now canceled military parade, had ballooned to $92 million, up from an initial estimate of 12 million.  https://t.co/w2Pl2jCXwo— MSNBC (@MSNBC) August 18, 2018Trump wasted no time in placing blame elsewhere for the cost overruns and canceled the parade:The local politicians who run Washington, D.C. (poorly) know a windfall when they see it. When asked to give us a price for holding a great celebratory military parade, they wanted a number so ridiculously high that I cancelled it. Never let someone hold you up! I will instead…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2018….attend the big parade already scheduled at Andrews Air Force Base on a different date, & go to the Paris parade, celebrating the end of the War, on November 11th. Maybe we will do something next year in D.C. when the cost comes WAY DOWN. Now we can buy some more jet fighters!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2018But one Twitter user, comedy writer Frank Lesser, suggested one way Trump could finally get his parade:If Trump wants a big parade in his honor all he has to do is resign— Frank Lesser (@sadmonsters) August 17, 2018He went on:If Trump really wanted to see soldiers march, he wouldn't have faked those bone spurs during Vietnam— Frank Lesser (@sadmonsters) August 17, 2018If anyone starts a GoFundMe for an actual "Adios, Trump!" Parade on Nov. 11th, I'll retweet the hell out of it.— Frank Lesser (@sadmonsters) August 17, 2018And Twitter blew up, seconding Lesser’s motion:YES!!!! https://t.co/KumS15PDx6— Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) August 17, 2018I bet most of US would be out on the streets celebrating! He would even have a worldwide audience if he resigned on TV. Best ratings of anyone ever in history. Believe me! — Elisabeth Pal (@elisabeth_pal) August 17, 2018I want to like and retweet this about a million times. Maybe 92 million times.— Barbara Combs (@theDreamRabbit) August 17, 2018	Liberal
As back to school shopping season gets into full swing (gulp, already!?), the cost of college is top of mind for many  and with good reason. According to the College Board, the average cost of tuition and fees for the 20172018 school year was $34,740 at private colleges, $9,970 for state residents at public colleges, and $25,620 for out-of-state residents attending public universities.Thats why Walmarts announcement that it will pay for associates or bachelors college degrees for its 1.5 million full- and part-time employees is kind of a big deal. The nations largest retail employer announced in late May that employees will be able to pursue degrees in business or supply-chain management at three non-profit schools for just one dollar a day. The program, which is available to all Walmart U.S. and Sams Club employees, will subsidize the cost of higher education. Degrees are being offered through the University of Florida, Brandman University in Irvine, California, and Bellevue University in Nebraska  nonprofit schools selected for their focus and strong outcomes on serving working adult learners.Investing in the personal and professional success of our associates is vital to Walmarts future success. We know training and learning opportunities empower associates to deliver for customers while growing and advancing in their careers, said Walmart U.S. Chief Executive Officer Greg Foran. The companys announcement also noted that associates can jumpstart their path to completion by earning college credit for paid training at Walmart Academies. Hundreds of thousands of associates have already undergone skills training equivalent to more than $210 million in college credits. This will save associates both time and money in completing their degree.Employees can take courses at the campuses or online, Walmart said, and there is no penalty for courses already taken if an employee leaves the company while enrolled in school. Theres also no requirement to continue working at Walmart for any period after receiving the degree. Walmart also currently offers subsidized programs to help employees get their high-school diploma.The tuition program is the latest move by Walmart to improve employee retention and engagement. Earlier this year, the company boosted its starting hourly wage to $11. It also expanded its maternity and parental leave policy and added an adoption benefit.Walmart told Second Nexus that 2,000 of its employees have completed applications for the college benefit and another 28,000 have initiated applications. A company spokesperson would not indicate how much the tuition program might cost the company. But the company coordinating the program  Guild Education  says such programs typically cost an employer $6,000 – $10,000 per worker annually. Last year, Walmarts revenue topped $486 billion.As with any corporate announcement, the devil is in the fine print details. Walmart employees, however, could have a tough time taking advantage of the program. One reason, according to Walmart employee activist group OUR Walmart, says that few employees will be able to attend college courses because of the companys scheduling system.As soon as you tell Walmart youre going to school, you lose access to a full-time schedule, Andrea Dehlendorf, co-executive director of OUR Walmart.Walmart employees have long complained that they dont receive as many shifts as theyd like, particularly if they need to schedule around other commitments, like schoolwork or childcare. Nearly 70 percent of part-time Walmart workers say they would like to be full-time, according to a recent survey by OUR Walmart.Because of Walmarts erratic scheduling system, many people who work at Walmart are unable to plan to take college classes or even pick up their children from school, said Cynthia Murray, who has been working at a Walmart store in Laurel, Md., for 18 years.Walmart disputes that notion, telling Second Nexus that it chose Guild Education and the three schools it chose to partner with because they offered employees the most flexibility in scheduling both in-person and online courses.	Liberal
It is no secret that income disparity and wage stagnation continue to be huge problems for American citizens. As it currently stands, minimum wage does not cover rent in an overwhelming majority of the states within America. According to a report by the National Low Income Housing Coalition, it is impossible for any individual who works a full-time, minimum wage job to afford a decent two bedroom apartment. This includes states where minimum wage is as high as $15 per hour. However, even the current fight for a $15 minimum wage everywhere would still not cover the cost of rent.Nationally, a worker needs to earn at least $17.60 to afford a one bedroom apartment and $22.10 for a two bedroom. Approximately 66% of the jobs in America pay less than $20 per hour, meaning that even individuals who make more than minimum wage are still struggling to pay rent.#OOR18 is now available! Check it out for the latest information on rents & wages in your state. https://t.co/89zbP1IiU6 pic.twitter.com/A1wVo6RK6C— NLIHC (@NLIHC) June 13, 2018The report is based on the concept that 30% of an individual’s income should go towards housing. Currently, the most expensive state is Hawaii, where an individual would need to earn an estimated $75,000 annually to afford a modest two bedroom apartment. In Arkansas, the state with the cheapest cost of living with regard to housing, an individual would still need to earn $13.84 per hour to afford a modest two bedroom apartment. The current minimum wage in Arkansas is $8.50A one bedroom apartment is currently considered affordable for residents of just five states Arizona, California, Colorado, Oregon and Washington. In all of these states, minimum wage is at least $7.25, which is the current Federal minimum wage. If an individual making Federal minimum wage wanted to afford one of the modest two bedroom apartments, they would have to work 122 hours per week. All year long.An increase in housing and rental costs has risen dramatically in the decade since the Great Recession.According to Sen. Bernie Sanders, one of the contributors to the report, the situation is critical. “While the housing market may have recovered for many, we are nonetheless experiencing an affordable housing crisis, especially for very low-income families. In America today, nearly 11 million families pay more than half of their limited incomes toward rent and utilities. That leaves precious little for other essentials, he said.	Liberal
As the jury in former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort’s tax and bank fraud trial convenes for the second day, President Donald Trump appeared to defend the embattled consultant.The president spoke to reporters about the trial on Friday."It's very sad what they've done to Paul Manafort," says President Trump as jury deliberates https://t.co/vCLomTLYmX pic.twitter.com/9etWLVgrjJ— TIME (@TIME) August 17, 2018Trump answered when asked if he’d consider granting Manafort a presidential pardon in the future:I think the whole Manafort trial is very sad, when you look at whats going on there. I think its a very sad day for our country. He worked for me for a very short period of time. But you know what? He happens to be a very good person. And I think its very sad what theyve done to Paul Manafort.The statement, according to some, is a reckless one.Because attempting to influence a jury outside of the courtroom is a crime, it’s highly unusual for someone with the stature of a sitting president to express an opinion of a defendant in an ongoing trial. Jurors are told to ignore any information on the trial that isn’t presented in the court as evidence. With a trial as notable as Manafort’s and in an age of immediate news, that’s undoubtedly difficult. Trump’s statements on it only exacerbate the situation.Because the Manafort jury was finalized in less than a day, it’s hard to guarantee jurors were screened for partisan leanings as exhaustively as a trial of this nature mandates. With Trump’s base having shown itself to be exceedingly loyal to the president, it’s not far-fetched to believe a juror could take it upon him or herself to act on behalf of the president’s sentiments.It’s a predicament that’s alarming some.If the jury isn't sequestered, which it isn't, how aren't Trump's comments this morning (which the jury will hear) jury tampering?— Peter Gleick (@PeterGleick) August 17, 2018This sounds suspiciously like Trump is sending Manafort a message to stay strong and not cut a plea deal with the government while the jury is out. Because he has, you know, that pardon power. https://t.co/xm5IgC7zTD— Joyce Alene (@JoyceWhiteVance) August 17, 2018Why – w/ Trump openly meddling – is the Manafort jury not sequestered? And now they leave at 5 & are off over the weekend?— John Wesley Shipp (@JohnWesleyShipp) August 17, 2018Trump: Manafort trial is a 'very sad day for our country' via @POLITICO for iOSClear case of obstruction. Also jury tampering. Shut this criminal up https://t.co/sVDfNoIMCU pic.twitter.com/MS4oXfGpho— DWT (@WTweets) August 17, 2018The possibility of tampering isn’t the only aspect of Trump’s statement that some have found troubling.	Liberal
The cost of college tuition is beyond the reach for the majority of Americans. As the price of higher education continues to compound, Democrats have decided to take action. The Democrats have drafted a legislative proposal that calls for debt-free college.A 2017 report by the Institute for Higher Education Policy determined that more than 70% of middle class and working Americans could not afford college tuition, even if those students were able to take out the maximum amounts of Federal student loans. Given that many jobs require a college education for a minimum wage, an unaffordable higher education has become a requirement for even the lowest standard of living.We want a world where parents do not have to choose between college or their kids or paying the rent. Where borrowers do not have a lifetime of debt because of a college degree where race gender and socioeconomic status do not determine professional success, said Rep. Susan Davis.U.S. students owed more than $1.3 trillion in student loans, according to the Pew Research Center. In response, Republicans recently introduced the PROSPER Act, which essentially makes college less affordable. A proposal that is literally designed to do harm, rather than assist the millions of Americans who are drowning is astronomical student loan debt, the PROSPER act has the potential to cut $15 billion from student aid, redirecting those funds to for-profit programs and other sources of corporate interest.The Democratic response, via the House Education and Workforce Committee, is a new proposal designed to lower the costs of attending college and provide students with debt-free education. The policy is similar to state level programs that are in place in 20 states.This is a common sense, comprehensive bill that works for the young people of this country. It increases investments in financial aid and make the majority of Pell grant funding mandatory and creates new incentives that will offer states to offer two-years of tuition-free community college – as weve already done in my state of Rhode Island, said said Rep. David Cicilline.	Liberal
Autonomous AI and weapons may have a future. Just not together. As of August 2018, more than 2400 high-impact players in science and technology  from SpaceX CEO Elon Musk to late astrophysicist Stephen Hawking  have signed a Lethal Autonomous Weapons Pledge declaring their intentions to halt an autonomous AI arms race before it begins. The historic motion urges governments to consider instituting regulations that preemptively ban, deter, and monitor militarized nations from amassing Lethal Autonomous Weapon Systems (LAWS): a growing classification of automated weaponry, including unmanned drones, fighter jets, and any lethal AI endowed with decisive power over human life. Authored by The Future of Life Institute (FLI), the pledge warns against the cataclysmic potential of developing LAWS to autonomously identify and exterminate a human target. Independent from the pledge, 26 countries in the United Nations have explicitly endorsed a ban on LAWS, including Argentina, China, Iraq, Mexico and Pakistan. Last year at the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), one of the worlds leading AI conferences, FLIs AI and robotics researchers released an open letter calling for the initial ban on LAWS to avert a third revolution in warfare. The letter instigated the United Nations to prevent autonomous AI technologies from being used as sanctioned instruments of violent oppression. However, as AI integrates daily into global defense initiatives, spending on national machine-learning programs has only increased. Passed by US Congress in the last few weeks, the Pentagons Project Maven  a program designed to categorize objects in drone imagery  received a 580% funding increase under President Trump who signed the $717 billion National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Described as an outreach organization protecting humanity against destructive technologies, FLIs utopic mission hopes to catalyze and support research initiatives for safeguarding life, developing optimistic visions of the future…including positive ways for humanity to steer its own course considering new technologies and challenges. FLIs founders commit to neither participate in nor support the development, manufacture, trade, or use of lethal autonomous weapons. In a world without LAWS, autonomous AI could better resolve societal challenges, such as resource management, energy renewal, environmental conservation, and stabilizing evolving difficulties posed by the ongoing global financial crisis. One of the pledges first signatories, Stuart Russell, a leading AI scientist at the University of California in Berkeley, believes manufacturing LAWS devastates basic human security and freedom: It is not science fiction. In fact, it is easier to achieve than self-driving cars, which require far higher standards of performance. Our AI systems must do what we want them to dokeeping artificial intelligence beneficial. Elon Musk, alongside Facebooks Mark Zuckerberg, is one of many entrepreneurs funding beneficial AI in joint machine-learning ventures like Vicarious FPC: a company building a replicable neural network of the brains neocortex that controls vision, body movement, and language functions. Googles DeepMind, with over $400 million invested to date, currently leads the private sector in AI development aimed toward making a positive impact.	Liberal
Erik Princefounder of the now rebranded Blackwater mercenary companynever held an official adviser role in the Trump campaign or the administration of President Donald Trump.But Prince donated $250,000 to pro-Trump causes during the campaign and also met with members of Trump’s national security team during the transition.Prince is also a person of interest in the Robert Mueller investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and beyond. A friend of Steve Bannon, Prince reportedly also tried to set up another back channel for Trump administration officials to communicate with Russialike the communication that led to the Trump Tower meeting with Donald Trump Jr. and Jared Kushner in attendancejust days before the inauguration.Now, Prince looks to find a new role in the Trump administration. He wants Trump to bypass the Pentagon and hire his old company Blackwaterunder the new name Academito once again work in Afghanistan.And thanks to his efforts to ingratiate himself with the Trump familyincluding a meeting three months before the 2016 election with Trump Jr. and campaign adviser Stephen Miller and representatives of several middle eastern interestsPrince may have the President’s ear.After all, Prince’s sister Betsy DeVos is a member of Trump’s cabinet. DeVosanother large donor to Trump causesserves as Secretary of Education despite having no experience with education.Prince recently made media rounds touting his company. He also suggested his proposal is being reviewed by the President.However a Trump administration spokesmanfrom the National Security Council stated:No such proposal from Erik Prince is under consideration. The president, like most Americans, would like to see more progress in Afghanistan. However, he also recognizes that withdrawing precipitously from Afghanistan would lead to the re-emergence of terrorist safe havens, putting American national security and lives in danger.”Prince claims his private mercenaries save money and lives. He wants Trump to hire him to run the Afghan War for the United States.There’s only one problem though. Last time Prince got a contract worth hundreds of millions under President George W. Bush, the opposite proved true. Prince’s employees cost more money and routinely killed people.Prince’s former company nameBlackwatermay sound familiar. Congress investigated the company back in 2007 for misconduct for their roles in Iraq and Afghanistan.In August 2010, the company agreed to pay a $42 million fine to settle allegations of illegal arms dealing.That settlement and fine concluded a U.S. State Department investigation begun in 2007. In August 2012, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million in fines to the US government to settle various other charges.In his 2007 congressional testimony, Prince said his company lacked remedies to deal with the many flagrant employee abuses of power and thefts because they “can’t flog” and “can’t incarcerate” their personnel.When asked for financial information about Blackwater, Prince refused saying “we’re a private company, and there’s a key word thereprivate.”According to that same congressional hearing, Blackwater charged the United States government $1,222 per day per guard “equivalent to $445,000 per year or six times more than the cost of an equivalent U.S. soldier.” But Prince claimed the figures, while accurate, failed to reflect the expertise provided by his mercenaries over any U.S. military personnel.But as a result of the rampant abuses by his expert employees,the House of Representatives passed stricter penalties and increased jurisdiction under the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act in October 2007 leading to the prosecution of some military contractors. But only for incidents involving their attacks against United States citizens.Many more abuses against citizens of Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries’ armed forces aiding the United States efforts went unprosecuted and unpunished due to jurisdiction claims made by Blackwater. Prince claimed his employees as U.S. government contractors were exempt from local prosecution as well as that of governments other than the United States.On January 30, 2009, the State Department informed Blackwater Worldwide it would not renew their contract in Iraq. Prince then went into a period of rebranding, changing his company name several times trying to distance himself from the abuses perpetrated by his employees in the hopes of someday gaining another lucrative government contract with the United States.Prince’s close ties to the United Arab Emirates and the Blackwater debacle, most notably in Iraq, should raise strong objections among administration officials and members of Congress. But will it?People are rightfully concerned as these reactions show.	Liberal
Earlier this week, President Donald Trump retweeted a Rasmussen poll claiming that Trump has a 36 percent approval rating among African-Americans. Here’s why it’s wrong.Todays @realDonaldTrump approval ratings among black voters: 36% This day last year: 19% https://t.co/mazBCWoIMy @POTUS @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/uIqYxoBn6w— Rasmussen Reports (@Rasmussen_Poll) August 15, 2018A deeper analysis indicates that these numbers are an “outlier” and that the president is grossly overinflating his levels of support among black Americans, especially considering that Trump has been accused of using racial slurs and that he only earnedeightpercent of the black vote in 2016.The Washington Post explained on Friday why the Rasmussen poll is inaccurate.“Polling firms that have interviewed far more African Americans, and that are much more transparent than Rasmussen,” the Post wrote, “all show that Trumps black approval rating is much lower than 36 percent.”Similarly, the polling firmCiviqs, which has interviewed more than 140,000 respondents in 2017 and 2018 suggests that Trumps black approval rating has consistently been in the single-digits throughout his presidency.Specifically, Civiqs gave Trump asixpercent approval rating. SIX!Here’s what other pollsters have found.Gallup has interviewed scores of African-Americans since the election and support for the president has remained steady – around 15 percent – over the last two years.Between February and August of 2017, Ipsos/Reuters polling indicated Trump’s support among blacks has hovered in the low teens, with only 12.8 percent approval as of July.In June, a Pew Research poll showed Trump with a 14 percent approval among African-Americans.Similar abysmal approval numbers were indicated by an August 15 Quinnipiac survey, which found that only nine percent of black Americans hold a positive view of the President.An August YouGov/Economist poll showed Trump with 13 percent support among black Americans.Interestingly, an August survey from the NAACP gave Trump some of his highest approval numbers, with 21 percent of African-Americans saying they approve of the job Trump is doing.Based on the data, however, Trump is overexaggerating his African-American support. Bigly.And Twitter isn’t letting it go.	Liberal
One of the more absurd revelations coming from the tell-all book and secret White House recordingsmade by a hand-picked appointee of President Donald Trumpinvolves a ridiculous argument Trump started with a group of veterans about the movie Apocalypse Now. Among their number were several who served in the war Trump opted out of: Vietnam.Having chosen advisers and administration officials unprepared and completely incompetent in matters involving the federal government, the behind the scenes look at the early days of the Trump White House exposed a comedy of errors.One such incident began with a 2017 meeting between Omarosa Manigault-Newmanwho had just been placed in charge of veterans issues by Trumpto the disgust of many veteransVeterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin, a handful of White House staffers andrepresentatives from various veterans organizations representing about six million veterans.Despite dropping in on several meetings and surprising tourists that day, the President skipped the veterans meeting entirely. Once word of the snub became public knowledge, people expressed their extreme displeasure on social media.President Trump Accused of Ignoring Veterans, Againand Sending Omarosa in His Place https://t.co/CJXa7moOgz pic.twitter.com/4IDTAy7R31 Bruce Bartlett (@BruceBartlett) March 10, 2017#TheResistanceThis is the second time he’s ditched veterans and sent Omarosa there instead. https://t.co/gxfuKd9OHf ??  – (@Im_TheAntiTrump) March 10, 2017Now that the election’s over, there’s no limit to Trump’s show of contempt for Veterans. https://t.co/6DGsqHmrOa margaret stuart md (@marstu67) March 10, 2017Cuz if I’m a veteran, the person I reallllly want to talk to is Omarosa. R U freakin’ kidding me? What an insult! CP says Paul Ryan & GOP should apologize (@CPinNashville) March 10, 2017After the backlash of being pushed off by the President onto a former contestant from his reality showwho like Trump never served in the militaryanother meeting convened in the Roosevelt Room on March 17, 2017, which included the President and Omarosa.Howeverdrawing on his years of experience watching war dramas on television and in moviesTrumpstarted an argument with Vietnam War veterans about the movie Apocalypse Now.This is 1 of the weirder stories Ive reported on on this WH: a WH meeting between Trump & war veterans devolved into a bizarre debate where the president wouldnt stop arguing to vets, including Vietnam vets, that it was Agent Orange not napalm in the famous APOCALYPSE NOW scene https://t.co/sOZFnLPJFV Asawin Suebsaeng (@swin24) August 17, 2018One anonymous attendee described the President’s decision to bicker over details from a movie by stating:It was really fucking weird.”The squabble began with a comment by Rick Weidman, co-founder of Vietnam Veterans of America. When asked for his Trump administration wishlist item,Weidman brought up the issue of the herbicide Agent Orange.Weidman asked Trump and his team to extend benefits to more veterans poisoned by Agent Orange during the Vietnam War. The President replied it was already taken care of, which confused the veterans in attendance.And the resulting exchange was both baffling and disturbing.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is furious at his former friend and White House employee Omarosa Manigault Newman and has asked Attorney General Jeff Sessions to have her arrested, according to a Republican with knowledge of the conversations who spoke toVanity Fair.It’s unclear what laws the president believes she broke.The report notes thatanother Republican “recounted how over the weekend Trump derailed a midterm-election strategy session to rant about Manigault Newmans betrayal.”Trump told advisers that he wants Jeff Sessions to have Manigault Newman arrested, one Republican briefed on the conversations tells Vanity Fair. (It's unclear what law Trump believes she broke.) https://t.co/6IEzqEPFf9— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 17, 2018Hes known her for 15 years and thinks its a personal betrayal, a former West Wing official said. Added another official:She is doing everything perfect if her ultimate goal is to troll Trump, while another source said Trump has been particularly angry about Manigault Newman’s book,Unhinged: An Insider’s Account of the Trump White House, because “he instinctively trusts women more than men.”The Trump campaign filed for arbitration earlier this week; the campaign is seeking “millions” in damages. Manigault Newman, meanwhile, has criticized the presidentfor attempting to intimidate and silence her.In their arbitration action, the Trump campaign alleges that Manigault Newman, a former reality show contestant on TrumpsThe Apprenticewhose formerly close relationship with the president landed her a position as the Director of Communications for the Office of Public Liaison. At least one campaign aide claimed that Manigault Newmans book and subsequent tour breached her 2016 confidentiality agreement with the campaign.Manigault Newman has acknowledged signing a confidentiality agreement in 2016, and writes in her book that following her termination from the White House in December 2017, the Trump re-election effort offered her a $15,000 per month position on the condition she sign a new confidentiality agreement. Manigault Newman says she declined that offer and yesterday she releasedexclusively to MSNBC a secret tape of campaign official Lara Trump offering her the position, appearing to corroborate the claims she makes in her book.In one excerpt from the recordingNBC has heard the recording in full and has confirmed that the clips of this conversation are in contextLara Trump, who is married to Donald Trumps son Eric, tells Manigault Newman thatthe only thing that we have to consider, where were talking salary as far as the campaign is concerned, is that, as you know, everything is public, adding:And that all the money that we raise and that pays salaries is directly from donors, small-dollar donors for the most part. So, I know you, you were making 179 at the White House. And I think we can work something out where we keep you right along those lines.Specifically, let me see, I havent even added up the numbers. But we were talking about, like, 15K a month. Let me see what that adds up to. Times 12. Yeah.So thats $180,000. Does that sound like a fair deal for you?LISTEN: Omarosa's secret recording of a call she had with Lara Trump in which they discuss Omarosa's potential salary if she came to work for the Trump campaign.At one point, Trump cautions her that she would have to remain "positive" about Donald Trump if she takes the job. pic.twitter.com/NdMNxfMLvK— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) August 16, 2018Manigault Newman made headlines earlier this week after she revealed she’d secretly recorded John Kelly, the White House chief of staff, as he fired her in the Situation Room.On the recording, Kelly says Manigault Newman could be facing pretty significant legal issues for her misuse of a government issued car. (Manigault Newman denies she misused the vehicle.)But I think its important to understand, he adds, that if we make this a friendly departure, we can all be, you know, you can look at, look at your time here in, in the White House as a year of service to the nation. And then you can go on without any type of difficulty in the future relative to your reputation.	Liberal
White House Senior Advisor Kellyanne Conway asked the White House Press Corps a perplexing question on Friday as she made her way into work, and it’s a doozy.Conway wanted to know why reporters are “so obsessed” with President Donald Trump, saying she thinks it’s “kind of weird” that the public is always “mentioning his name.”“Why is everybody so obsessed with the President of the United States that they can’t even begin or finish a sentence without mentioning his name five times,” Conway wondered, unironically. “It’s kind of weird.”Kellyanne Conway: "Why is everybody so obsessed with the President of the United States that they can't even begin or finish a sentence without mentioning his name five times. It's kind of weird." pic.twitter.com/S6aTURBiAu— CSPAN (@cspan) August 17, 2018After being asked why former CIA Director John Brennan had his security clearance revoked, Conway added that this “obsession” with Trump is “infecting people on the news” who “fancy themselves experts on national security.”The bizarre exchange was preceded by a string of comments from Conway defending the $716 billion defense budget Trump signed into law earlier this week. Conway said Trump is the “most pro-military, pro-veteran president” ever, emphasizing that the budget gives servicemembers the “resources and respect they need.”Conway then accused those who disagree with the handling of America’s wars of “disrespecting the flag” and “yelling at our brave men and women in uniform as they walk by.”Philip Bump of the Washington Post responded on Twitter with a perfect analogy toConway’s question about the media’s so-called “obsession.”“Standing outside the Super Bowl, the NFL spokesman asks sports reporters why they keep wanting to talk about football,” Bump wrote.Standing outside the Super Bowl, the NFL spokesman asks sports reporters why they keep wanting to talk about football. https://t.co/x4sblBsJr6— Philip Bump (@pbump) August 17, 2018Twitter added some of its own thoughts to Bump’s comparison.The media “just want to confirm that the stupidity they heard was what Trump said.”They keep talking about him because he is the President and says the stupidest things. They just want to confirm that the stupidity they heard was what Trump said.— Henry M. Rosenberg (@DoctorHenryCT) August 17, 2018“What a bizarre thing to say.” No kidding.What a bizarre thing to say. My God, she is so oppositional. Shed twist and argue with a brick wall. My sympathy, George.— Deb (@debstalking) August 17, 2018“When spotted striding out of a burning building, Kellyanne asks why everyone is so obsessed with fire safety, arson, and fire trucks. ‘What about Infrastructure Week? Thats going on too,’ she commented.”When spotted striding out of a burning building, Kellyanne asks why everyone is so obsessed with fire safety, arson, and fire trucks. What about Infrastructure Week? Thats going on too, she commented.— Amanda Stevens (@AdamantSevens) August 17, 2018Make it stop.Can someone just get her to say her name backwards so we can end this?— Steven Riddle (@StevenRiddle14) August 17, 2018Responses to the C-SPAN clip were brutal.	Liberal
Admiral William H. McRaven, the man who oversaw the raid to take out Osama bin Laden, slammed President Donald Trump’s decision to revoke the security clearance of John Brennan, the former CIA director, in a Washington Post Op-Ed on Thursday.William H. McRaven oversaw the raid that killed Osama bin Laden.McRaven wrote this in defense of former CIA director John Brennan  "one of the finest public servants I have ever known"  after President Trump revoked Brennan's security clearance https://t.co/idCYWiTFSR— Post Opinions (@PostOpinions) August 16, 2018Brennan was stripped of his credentials on Wednesday via an announcement from White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Brennan maintains that no one has personally contacted him to discuss the matter and that he only heard about the revocation from Sanders on television.In his Op-Ed, McRaven requested Trump revoke his security clearance as well because he has also publicly criticized the administration.I would consider it an honor if you would revoke my security clearance as well, so I can add my name to the list of men and women who have spoken up against your presidency.McRaven tore into Trump’s “McCarthy-era tactics” that McRaven wrote have “embarrassed us in the eyes of our children, humiliated us on the world stage and, worst of all, divided us as a nation.”An additional dozen of the United States’ most experienced intelligence officers also issued a statement condemning Trump’s decision.11 ex-senior intel officials from both GOP and Democratic admins condemn the revocation of John Brennan's security clearance, calling it "an attempt to stifle free speech.""Decisions on security clearances should be based on national security concerns and not political views." pic.twitter.com/HUKiHlBU3p— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 17, 2018In their Thursday statement, the officials called Trump’s decision “ill-conceived” and defended Brennan as an “enormously talented, capable, and patriotic individual.”Insinuations and allegations of wrongdoing on the part of Brennan while in office are baseless.The group defended Brennan’s freedom to criticize the president over national security concerns.“Since leaving government service John has chosen to speak out sharply regarding what he sees as threats to our national security,” they wrote. “Some of the undersigned have done so as well.”The officials then tore into Trump’s targeting of Brennan, which has been compounded with threats of revoking clearances of other intelligence officers who have spoken critically of the president.“The presidents action regarding John Brennan and the threats of similar action against other former officials has nothing to do with who should and should not hold security clearances,” the officers sad, “and everything to do with an attempt to stifle free speech.”You dont have to agree with what John Brennan says (and, again, not all of us do) to agree with his right to say it, subject to his obligation to protect classified information.Security clearances should never be used as a “political tool,” they wrote, and that signaling that the president is willing to use them as such is “inappropriate and deeply regrettable.”“Decisions on security clearances should be based on national security concerns and not political views,” the statement concluded.Below are the signatories.William H. Webster, former Director of Central Intelligence (1987-1991) George J. Tenet, former Director of Central Intelligence (1997-2004) Porter J. Goss, former Director of Central Intelligence, (2005-2006) General Michael V. Hayden, USAF, Ret., former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (2006-2009) Leon E. Panetta, former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (2009-2011) General David H. Petraeus, USA, Ret., former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (2011-2012) James R. Clapper, former Director of National Intelligence (2010-2017) John E. McLaughlin, former Deputy Director of Central Intelligence (2000-2004) Stephen R. Kappes, former Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (2006-2010) Michael J. Morell, former Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (2010-2013) Avril Haines, former Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (2013-2015) David S. Cohen, former Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (2015-2017)Social media wasted no time in expressing support for the intel officials.	Liberal
With reports that the military parade President Donald Trump and his team were planning for November 10th of this year would cost upwards of 92 million dollars, the president announced on Twitter that he had “cancelled” it.And not surprisingly, he found someone to blame:The local politicians who run Washington, D.C. (poorly) know a windfall when they see it. When asked to give us a price for holding a great celebratory military parade, they wanted a number so ridiculously high that I cancelled it. Never let someone hold you up! I will instead…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2018….attend the big parade already scheduled at Andrews Air Force Base on a different date, & go to the Paris parade, celebrating the end of the War, on November 11th. Maybe we will do something next year in D.C. when the cost comes WAY DOWN. Now we can buy some more jet fighters!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2018It was then that Muriel Bowser, the Mayor of Washington, D.C., took to Twitter to fire back.Yup, Im Muriel Bowser, mayor of Washington DC, the local politician who finally got thru to the reality star in the White House with the realities ($21.6M) of parades/events/demonstrations in Trump America (sad). https://t.co/vqC3d8FLqx— MurielBowser (@MurielBowser) August 17, 2018Bowser is just one of many who believe that an extravagant military parade would be a waste of money and resources. The event has been a source of contention since even before the Trump administration ordered the Department of Defense to begin looking into it this past June. At that time, one official told reporters “There is only one person who wants this parade” in a reference to Donald Trump.That official seems to be right. One informal poll conducted by Military Times saw 89 percent of 51 thousand votes express their disapproval of the parade.Similarly, social media users applauded Bowser’s retort.As a DC tax payer it pains me to see tax dollars pay for the law enforcement and first responders required to deal with the additional drama created by this Administration. Thank you for trying to stop this needless waste of tax money. DC has more pressing issues.— Henry C. (@FireRunner) August 17, 2018I wish I could like this more than once! Mayor Bowser wins the day & the Internet pic.twitter.com/Vvi1qiWXbe— RevBAJones (@RevBAJones) August 17, 2018Some rebuked Republican representatives in the process.Too bad GOP congress doesnt have your common sense, leadership abilities & spine. This tax payer & daughter of a vet thanks you!— GeorginaPond (@georginapond1) August 17, 2018Thank you for doing what Congress refuses to: serving as a reality check on our reality star so-called president.— Blue (@Voter_2018) August 17, 2018Thank you from the majority of the citizens of the United States, Mayor Bowser. We appreciate you standing up to the faux Potus installed by Putin, inhabiting the White House, which is something @HouseGOP & @SenateGOP haven't been able to do, to date.— Determinedly Dawn (@viewsfordays) August 17, 2018Others pointed out the hypocrisy of spending millions on the parade while simultaneously cutting veterans’ access to health care.Two headlines, a day apart:"White House: U.S. can't afford veterans' health care without cuts""Initial cost for Trump military parade comes in at $12 million, DoD says" pic.twitter.com/p76PF56xq4— Brandon Friedman (@BFriedmanDC) July 19, 2018$92 mill on a military parade while there are proposals to cut monthly stipends to some disabled unemployed veterans and reducing veterans' cost-of-living adjustments as offsets to continue a program that allows veterans to seek care outside the VA,not to mention mental health.— Greg Curl (@CoachGCurl) August 17, 2018Thank God the disgusting dictator parade has been postponed (s/b cancelled). #Veterans need premium #healthcare services and decent pay. Their pay should not be cut for any reason. NOBODY giving their life for this country should be on #Welfare and #EBT.— Edna Hill (@itsjustaphaze) August 17, 2018The parade has long been seen by much of the public as an attempt by the president to stroke his ego.	Liberal
Thursday night, from Manhattan, President Donald Trump’s second of three sons took to Twitter to make a complaint.I truly hate disloyal people”Eric Trump, 34-year-old Executive Vice President of the Trump Organization, failed to explain who or what he spoke of in his tweet.While his father addressed loyalty in recent daysafter one of the people President Trump gave a coveted $179,000 per year position at the White House released a tell-all book and disclosed making secret recordings of events at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenuethe younger Trump remains relatively unscathed from most of what happens in Washington DC.So what brought this Twitter post to fruition?I truly hate disloyal people Eric Trump (@EricTrump) August 17, 2018While the President’s second son never did clarify, the Twittersphere, being what it is, happily filled in the blanks.Well, Thanksgiving is going to be REALLY awkward for you then. ??Liberal Navy Vet Fu*k Your Civility???????? (@Jesmaec) August 17, 2018And who is the most disloyal person in Eric Trump’s life according to Twitter? It all came back to the same name over and over: Donald Trump Sr., his father.Your father is disloyal to nearly everyone who is no longer useful to him….so I’m assuming this is about your dad. https://t.co/vVhPNSAmUn Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) August 17, 2018It’s OK. A lot of people hate their dads beth, an alien™ (@bourgeoisalien) August 17, 2018Like Disloyal to The United States of America kind of disloyal? Like selling out American Sovereignty kind of disloyal? Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) August 17, 2018Or your father cheating on your step mother after she had a baby with a porn star disloyal ? Rosanna Arquette (@RoArquette) August 17, 2018People who are disloyal to you. Because considering your sycophant worship of your father who’s been disloyal to everyone he’s ever come in contact with including your own mother true disloyalty does’t seem to be a concern for you. Mark Toth (aka Rancid Butter) (@TheButteryOne) August 17, 2018Welcome to the resistance Eric. It must have been hard growing a dad like yours and seeing be repeatedly unfaithful to his wives. Continue to speak out against the traitor in the White House. Urge him to come clean for his own sake as well as his countrys. Matty Scrape (@MattyScrape) August 17, 2018Here’s the problem kid, you have no idea what loyalty is. You have been basking in the shadow of an amoral, egomaniacal, philandering serial adulterer who has cheated at every opportunity. He wouldn’t hesitate to throw you under the bus too, and you know it. (((edelweisspirat)))?? TumpTeason (@crandallgold) August 17, 2018Most pointed out his father’s problems with remaining loyal to his marriage vows.Your father has cheated on every one of his wives including your mother. https://t.co/9LbC3n573N The Hoarse Whisperer (@HoarseWisperer) August 17, 2018Five kids (that we know of) with three different baby mamas. Cheated on all three. Paid off women to keep them quiet. I can see why you would hate your daddy. Therapy might help you work through it. #trump #TrumpCrimeFamily Rev. Beth ?? (@ReverendBeth) August 17, 2018Your dad cheated on all three of his wives https://t.co/hluN4nGw4i jordan (@JordanUhl) August 17, 2018Your dad cheated on your mom while she was home taking care of you as a little child! HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA David Beeler (@beels) August 17, 2018Like people who cheat on their first wife with their second wife and then cheat on their second wife with their third wife and then cheat on their third wife with Playboy models and porn stars? Yeah, those people are the worst Wescott Eberts (@SBN_Wescott) August 17, 2018A few people pointed out that his father was not the only one with issues of loyalty to the marriage bond in the following tweets.	Liberal
Elizabeth McNamara, the outside counsel for Simon & Schuster, the publisher behind Omarosa Manigault Newmans new book, Unhinged, wrote a letter responding to the Trump campaign’s filing for arbitration earlier this week, and she criticized President Donald Trump for attempting to intimidate and silence her client.Omarosa's book publisher to the Trump campaign: "My clients will not be intimidated by hollow legal threats and have proceeded with publication of the Book as schedule."https://t.co/ILIgWtBfAI— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 16, 2018My clients will not be intimidated by hollow legal threats and have proceeded with publication of the Book as [scheduled], McNamara wrote, continuing:While your letter generally claims that excerpts from the book contain disparaging statements, it is quite telling that at no point do you claim that any specific statement in the book is false.Your client does not have a viable legal claim merely because unspecified truthful statements in the Book may embarrass the president or his associates. At base, your letter is nothing more than an obvious attempt to silence legitimate criticism of the President. S&S will not be silenced by legal threats grounded in vague allusions to “disparaging statements.”Elsewhere, McNamara reminds the Trump campaign that the government “has no legitimate interest in censoring” Simon & Schuster, particularly when the publisher “legitimately reports on information that is plainly newsworthy and highly relevant to matters of public concern”:McNamara is no stranger to dealing with the Trump campaign. Earlier this year, she fired off another letter after the president’s attorneys sent publisher Henry Holt and Company a cease-and-desist letter over journalist Michael Wolffs book Fire & Fury: Inside The Trump White House, addressing their claim that the book is libelous:Mr. Trump is the President of the United States, with the bully pulpit at his disposal.To the extent he disputes any statement in the book, he has the largest platform in the world to challenge it … Though your letter provides a basic summary of New York libel law, tellingly, it stops short of identifying a single statement in the book that is factually false or defamatory.While the furor aroundFire and Fury appears to have died down, there’s no telling how long the feud between Manigault Newman and Trump will last.In their arbitration action, the Trump campaign alleges that Manigault Newman, a former reality show contestant on Trump’sThe Apprenticewhose formerly close relationship with the president landed her a position as the Director of Communications for the Office of Public Liaison. At least one campaign aide claimed that Manigault Newman’s book and subsequent tour breached her 2016 confidentiality agreement with the campaign.Manigault Newman has acknowledged signing a confidentiality agreement in 2016, and writes in her book that following her termination from the White House in December 2017, the Trump re-election effort offered her a $15,000 per month position on the condition she sign a new confidentiality agreement. Manigault Newman says she declined that offer and yesterday she releasedexclusively to MSNBC a secret tape of campaign official Lara Trump offering her the position, appearing to corroborate the claims she makes in her book.	Liberal
Another claim from Omarosa Manigault Newman’s explosive new bookUnhinged: An Insider’s Account of the Trump White House is making the rounds. This time it’s less about embattled President Donald Trump and more about his daughter and one of his senior advisors, Ivanka.According to Manigault Newman, Ivanka was frustrated after seeing an SNL sketch parodying her perceived complacency to her father’s words and policies. The sketch hadScarlett Johansson playing Ivanka in a fake perfume ad calledComplicit.The video’s most scathing critiques are still relatively mild, with lines like “I bet when she watchesTitanic, she thinks she’s Rose. Sorry, girl. You’re Billy Zane.”While the sketch was definitely less skewering than SNL’s sketches about her father tend to be, according to Manigault Newman, Ivanka “couldnt stop bemoaning it, how offensive it was, how ridiculous it was.Manigault Newman went on to write:Wed all been subject to SNL attacks  Wed all been hit, many of us in that same weeks show. But Ivanka would not stop talking about being ribbed. Like her father, Ivanka was thin-skinned and could not seem to take a joke.Manigault Newman also mentioned that her father wanted to intervene, telling his daughter to leave the White House and run the family business, because he couldn’t protect her in the political arena.However, the sketch only echoes what a lot of Americans have begun to believe about Ivanka Trump. She recently took heat after saying she was “vehemently against” Donald Trump’s family separation policy. Many felt she’d done nothing to stop it and only spoke out against it after it was abolished.Now, Americans on social media are relishing her reaction to the SNL sketch.Wonder if she thought of any number of her father's targets…he belittled, berated and lied about many.  Did ivanka speak up? I do not feel sorry for her because she IS complicit.— joslyn (@ziliolirob) August 16, 2018Ivanka hates this. Would be a shame if it got retweeted: https://t.co/RDmlQ2Ucwe #Complicit— The Zen Parrot (@The_Zen_Parrot) August 16, 2018@IvankaTrump pic.twitter.com/NwjKj2bhAf— BlueVotr (@BlueVotr) August 16, 2018Whining and Crying is a trait of the #TrumpCrimeFamily. @IvankaTrump approves kidnapping children and then cant understand what the fuss is all about.— Never Trump (@1DumpTrump) August 16, 2018I truly hope that when the time comes — and its coming, that she is locked up too.— RealHorsesArsePeriod (@ZenWolfPup) August 16, 2018If Ivanka was furious at theComplicitad, she’s likely seething at the other allegations Manigault Newman mentions in the book.	Liberal
The planned military parade President Donald Trump wanted ever since seeing a special Bastille Day parade in Paris, France, in 2017, gives people a few important points to ponder. *see end of article for continuing updates to this storyThe foremost issue for many remains the fact that among the most vocally opposed to the parade Trump claims would honor active duty military and veterans, are active duty military and veterans.A February 2018 Army Times pollseen belowof active duty military personnel showed 89 percent opposed to the parade. The poll asked: “Should there be a parade showcasing troops and military equipment in Washington, D.C.?”Recent cuts to veterans servicesdeemed necessary by congressional Republicans and the Trump administrationprovoked strong veteran opposition to the parade as well.Two headlines, a day apart:“White House: U.S. can’t afford veterans’ health care without cuts”“Initial cost for Trump military parade comes in at $12 million, DoD says” pic.twitter.com/p76PF56xq4 Brandon Friedman (@BFriedmanDC) July 19, 2018Veteranson social media suggested organizing a veterans march or counter protests in Washington DC on the day of the parade.Now there is new information for the public to process regarding Trump’s parade: the actual cost.According to a Pentagon report, the unpopularTrump mandated U.S. version of a parade of military strength will feature up to 7,000 servicemembers, 100 vehicles, 50 aircraft and 100 horses. So what is the estimated price tag for Trump’s Washington DC display set to rival the military parades of Russia’s Vladimir Putin, China’s Xi Jinping and North Korea’s Kim Jong Un?The Department of Defense and the interagency partners handling the civilian logistics updated their cost estimate for the parade from the original $12 million to a whopping:$92,000,000.00A lot goes in to staging any event. For the type of military display the President ordered the Pentagon to give him there are a multitude of logistical costs.Logistics refers to the costs needed to transport, house and feed the active duty personnel being required to participate; the same for any non-human participants like horses and dogs; the transportation, fueling, maintenance and storage costs of any equipment to be used in the parade; and the costs of setting up, cleaning up and securing the venue for the parade.Barricades and fencing as well as grandstands and viewing platforms will need to be set up and if not already in stock, purchased. Security personnel will need to be on hand to handle both spectators and any protesters. Everyone who works to set up, during the parade or after to tear down and clean up will need to be paid.$92 million reflects an increase of $80 million over the original estimate which only accounted for a portion of the logistics required to mount the parade. If everything required for the parade already sat in Washington DC awaiting the go ahead, it might cost $12 million.Such an excellent use of 92,000,000 million dollars. https://t.co/otCay7Dx2l Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) August 16, 2018It costs another $80 million for the logistics of getting everything to that go point, then restore Washington DC to its pre-parade state afterward.The figure includes $50 million from the Department of Defense (DoD)who needs to get their equipment and personnel to DC and back to their home basesout of their fiscal year(FY) 2019 budget and $42 million from the interagency partnerslikely including Homeland Security and the National Park ServiceFY2019 budgets.	Liberal
The Pentagon has been punishing reporters and restricting access to top Defense Department officials, Politico reported on Thursday. Journalists are becoming increasingly frustrated with the administration’s lack of transparency and retaliatory behavior toward stories they don’t like.Like war itself, [retaliation] should be the last option," a former Pentagon spokesperson said. https://t.co/4PqL40HETJ— POLITICO (@politico) August 16, 2018Jason Schwartz detailed a “combative” interaction between members of the media and Pentagon spokespersonDana White in which White said the Pentagon was “watching what they wrote and put on-air  with the implication that there would be repercussions for stories she and her staff did not like.”Schwartz said it has become increasingly difficult to access Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, noting that “several reporters said that they increasingly feel as though individual journalists are being retaliated against for stories theyve written, losing yet more access.”One such example cited by Schwartz involved Defense One, a military news outlet that published a piece critical of President Donald Trump’s proposed Space Force. Defense One was “left out of amedia roundtablewith the deputy secretary of defense earlier this month to help roll out President Donald Trumps proposed Space Force,” Schwartz said.“It seems Defense One was deliberately left out of a briefing in retaliation for our reporting,” Defense One Executive Editor Kevin Baron said. Baron added that he received an apology from White and that his publication “would be included to all future, relevant briefings.”This is truly scary….my hard earned taxes pay for these people to run amuck…— Camaville Adkins (@camavillegr8) August 16, 2018Baron also said the “climate” reeks of “retaliation.”“Because of the preexisting climate, people start to wonder if its retaliation more than I think you would normally,” he said. “I worry, because Ive heard that it may be happening to other reporters, and I worry what kind of signal it sends to the rest of military bases around the world.”Baron added:Its definitely a change of past practice from previous administrations and defense secretaries. Its not something that were used to at the Pentagon. Things are just different at the Pentagon. These are veteran reporters who cover life and death and war and peace.In a statement, Pentagon spokesman Charles Summers said the Defense Department was committed to “the accessibility of timely and accurate information to the media, the Congress, and the American people.”We are guided by the principles of information and committed to ensuring the accessibility of timely and accurate information to the media, the Congress and the American people. And we prioritize diversity of reporting during engagements and travel with Secretary Mattis and all of our senior leaders in the Department of Defense.Summers later told Politico “there is no retaliation” against the media and that journalists who feel shut out of foreign trips should understand that the Pentagon is trying to use “regional media and bring non-traditional media.”Like I said…it starts at the top, if the boss says retaliate…thats how it works— AV8 (@AV8intheblue) August 16, 2018“The notion that someone doesnt have access or someone is shut out, thats absolutely not accurate,” Summers added.But Schwartz wrote that a number of Pentagon reporters feel growing frustration with their ability to deliver information to the American people about the Defense Department.	Liberal
Former President Barack and First Lady Michelle Obama tweeted touching tributes to soul legend Aretha Franklin, who passed away on Thursday at the age of 76 after battling pancreatic cancer.“May the Queen of Soul rest in eternal peace.”The 44th president said Franklin, whose voice resonated behind the Civil Rights movement, “helped define the American experience.”“In her voice, we could feel our history, all of it and in every shadeour power and our pain, our darkness and our light, our quest for redemption and our hard-won respect,” Obama wrote.Aretha helped define the American experience. In her voice, we could feel our history, all of it and in every shadeour power and our pain, our darkness and our light, our quest for redemption and our hard-won respect. May the Queen of Soul rest in eternal peace. pic.twitter.com/bfASqKlLc5— Barack Obama (@BarackObama) August 16, 2018Obama also posted to Facebook.“America has no royalty,” the former president wrote. “But we do have a chance to earn something more enduring.”“She will forever be our Queen of Soul.”The former FLOTUS said listening to Franklin “made time stand still,” and that she and her husband “are holding Arethas family in our hearts right now.”Watching Aretha Franklin perform at the White House, and on so many other occasions, made time stand still. @BarackObama and I are holding Arethas family in our hearts right now.She will forever be our Queen of Soul. pic.twitter.com/NhHsbKijpl— Michelle Obama (@MichelleObama) August 16, 2018President Donald Trump also recognized Franklin’s passing on Twitter.The Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin, is dead. She was a great woman, with a wonderful gift from God, her voice. She will be missed!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 16, 2018A few hours later following a cabinet meeting, Trump managed to make Frankin’s death about him, adding that Franklin had “worked for me on numerous occasions.” Yes, really.Here's the video of Trump saying that Aretha Franklin "worked for me on numerous occasions. She was terrific." Doesn't seem like the W.H. has clairified yet what he meant. (via Yahoo) pic.twitter.com/LErBeAQ7bw— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 16, 2018Twitter responded to the Obamas’ tributes with reverence and grief. pic.twitter.com/oV7Ulyr1kF— Shah Rukh Khan FC (@iamsrknFC) August 16, 2018 pic.twitter.com/QI97Hr1Aw8— Shah Rukh Khan FC (@iamsrknFC) August 16, 2018“Please come back.”Please come back.Love,America— James Parkley (@jnarls) August 16, 2018Miss you— Katrina Kaif (@katrinakaif_4) August 16, 2018“This tweet is poetry. Both of your voices are missed.”This tweet is poetry. Both of your voices are missed.— Tuna (@2naOnWhite) August 16, 2018“You are true class.”You are true class. We miss you! Come back and save us from evil Cheeto.— Tommy Campbell (@MrTommyCampbell) August 16, 2018“And that fabulous hat!”And that fabulous hat!!  pic.twitter.com/a2Nr5uqDuV— Pam Berry (@PamBerr25216803) August 16, 2018 pic.twitter.com/y8ozuldcEf— julie brown (@blondjuliebrown) August 16, 2018 pic.twitter.com/Q07QXjwJms— Marie of Roumania (@MissRoumania) August 16, 2018We miss you so much! pic.twitter.com/qZnuusUuue— Sarah (@Sarah_SKG_1983) August 16, 2018Thank you for showing the love we all feel towards Aretha Franklin.— kdiamond (@kjwdiamond) August 16, 2018Here’s how Hillary Clinton honored Franklin.Mourning the loss today of @ArethaFranklin who shared her spirit and talent with the world. She deserves not only our RESPECT but also our lasting gratitude for opening our eyes, ears and hearts. Rest in eternal peace, my friend.— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) August 16, 2018Replies to Trump, on the other hand, were far less cordial.	Liberal
The White House came under fire yesterday after Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders announced that President Donald Trump would be revoking the security clearance of ex-CIA head John Brennan, and now reporters are calling Sanders out for announcing whose security clearances the White House may revoke next.In explaining how the decision to revoke Brennan’s security clearance “raises larger questions about the practice of former officials maintaining access to our nations most sensitive secrets long after their time in government has ended,” Sanders noted that:Such access is particularly inappropriate when former officials have transitioned into highly partisan positions and seek to use real or perceived access to sensitive information to validate their political attacks. Any access granted to our nations secrets should be in furtherance of national, not personal, interests. For this reason, Ive also begun to review the more general question of the access to classified information by government officials.As part of this review, I am evaluating action with respect to the following individuals: James Clapper, James Comey, Michael Hayden, Sally Yates, Susan Rice, Andrew McCabe, Peter Strzok, Lisa Page, and Bruce Ohr.Security clearances for those who still have them may be revoked, and those who have already lost their security clearance may not be able to have it reinstated..@PressSec: Any access granted to our nations secrets should be in furtherance of national not personal interest. https://t.co/QZrKVultno pic.twitter.com/n7opKnL6fJ— Fox News (@FoxNews) August 16, 2018Sanders’ remarks prompted ABC’s Jonathan Karl to ask whether the president planned to revoke the security clearances of his political opponents.“Sarah, first, Ive got a question I wanted to ask you. But first, just to follow up on that, it seems like everybody that you mentioned has been a political critic of the President,” Karl said. “Is he going after his political opponents with this?“No,” Sanders replied. “If there were others that werent, that we deemed necessary, we would certainly take a look and review those as well.”Jeff Mason, the White House Correspondent for Reuters, also questioned the move.“Hey, Sarah. Following up Jons question, how is this announcement by the President  how can Americans not interpret that as a ‘getting back against his critics’?” he asked. “And isnt it also an attempt to curtail their freedom of speech by penalizing them for being critical on television?”“Not at all,” Sanders said. “The President has a constitutional responsibility to protect classified information, and who has access to it. And thats what hes doing is fulfilling that responsibility in this action.”“Is this the kind of precedent he wants to set for future Presidents when his administration is out of office?” Mason asked. “And why are there no Republicans on that list?”“Once again, if we deemed it necessarily, we would certainly look into that and be happy to review those,” Sanders said..@jeffmason1 asks @PressSec about @JohnBrennan's revoked security clearance of: "How can Americans not interpret that as a getting back against his critics?"Full video here: https://t.co/XukQoTCw4L pic.twitter.com/dU7uKUwtm1— CSPAN (@cspan) August 15, 2018But the questions didn’t stop there.When Sanders called on theAssociated Press‘s Sagar Meghani, he asked, “One of the individuals that you listed on that list of clearances that is under review is Bruce Ohr. Hes a current employee of the Department of Justice. So instead of putting him under the review, does the President believe he should be fired?”Sanders claimed she did not have “any personnel announcements” on that front and that she could only “speak to this specific case.”“But why put his security clearance under review, which would render him unable to do his job, and not just fire him?” Meghani asked.“Once again, I dont have any personnel announcements on that front. I can just tell you were looking into that specific matter.”Then NBC’s Peter Alexander weighed in.“If people who criticize the President publicly on TV or are public in their criticisms, are they at greater risk of losing their security clearances than people who stay silent?” he asked.Sanders responded that “this is looked at on a case-by-case basis,” and that the White House will “do an individual review and make that determination.”The list of individuals whose security clearances will be revoked has been referred to as an “enemies list” by some media outlets, in a nod to the president’s decidedly authoritarian leanings:	Liberal
President Donald Trump spoke to theWall Street Journalafter his press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders announced he’d be revoking the security clearance of former CIA chief John Brennan. However, the reasons Sanders gave when announcing it during a briefing aren’t lining up with the reasons Trump gave in the interview.Trump directly related his reasoning for revoking the clearance of the 25 year veteran of the FBI to the Russia probe.I call it the rigged witch hunt, [it] is a sham, And these people led it! So I think its something that had to be done.Trump explains to WSJ why he acted against Brennan today and threatened the same for others:I call it the rigged witch hunt, [it] is a sham, Mr. Trump said in an interview. And these people led it!He added: So I think its something that had to be done.— Dafna Linzer (@DafnaLinzer) August 16, 2018Meanwhile, Press Secretary Sanders asserted at the briefing that the president’s revocation was due to legitimate security concerns. Sanders read a statement from Donald Trump:As the head of the executive branch and Commander-in-Chief, I have a unique constitutional responsibility to protect the nations classified information, including by controlling access to it. Today, in fulfilling that responsibility, I have decided to revoke the security clearance of John Brennan, former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.The move came a day after Brennan fired back at Trump on Twitter for calling former White House aide Omarosa Manigault Newman a “crazed, crying lowlife” and “that dog”:Its astounding how often you fail to live up to minimum standards of decency, civility, & probity. Seems like you will never understand what it means to be president, nor what it takes to be a good, decent, & honest person. So disheartening, so dangerous for our Nation. https://t.co/eI9HaCec1m— John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) August 14, 2018With news of the revocation, Brennan still hasn’t backed down nor does he have intentions to do so.This action is part of a broader effort by Mr. Trump to suppress freedom of speech & punish critics.  It should gravely worry all Americans, including intelligence professionals, about the cost of speaking out. My principles are worth far more than clearances. I will not relent. https://t.co/TNzOxhP9ux— John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) August 15, 2018Brennan also published a scathing op-ed in which he calls the president’s claims that there was no collusion “hogwash.” He went on to say:Mr. Trump clearly has become more desperate to protect himself and those close to him, which is why he made the politically motivated decision to revokemy security clearancein an attempt to scare into silence others who might dare to challenge him. Now more than ever, it is critically important that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, and his team of investigators be allowed to complete their work without interference  from Mr. Trump or anyone else  so that all Americans can get the answers they so rightly deserve.Perhaps unsurprisingly, the president has been berating Brennan on Twitter.John Brennan is a stain on the Country, we deserve better than this. Former Secret Service Agent and author of new book, Spygate, the Attempted Sabotage of Donald J. Trump, Dan Bongino. Thank you Dan, and good luck with the book!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 16, 2018Many say that his reasoning for revoking the clearance is nothing short of obstruction.Trumps astonishing public admission this week: he stripped Brennan of security clearance because of his role in the DOJs Russia probe!It echoes his earlier public admission: he fired Comey for the same reason. Obstruction of justice squared  in plain view. Staggering.— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) August 16, 2018Trump admits the he retaliated against Brennan for his role in the Russian investigation. This is both obstruction and witness tampering.— Maurice Ross (@MauriceMichael) August 16, 2018Author Kurt Eichenwald felt the same.The former CIA head has security clearance revoked because he criticizes Trump. No better proof that Trump is an autocrat and an idiot. The clearance is a courtesy. It has nothing to do with clearance. If Brennan revealed anything classified, its a crime. Trump is a snowflake.— Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) August 15, 2018…now, of course, Brennan is going to be interviewed 10,000 times more often because trump has taken an unprecedented petty action. And Brennan- who is smarter than Trump – will up the criticism based on this. As will everyone else by Cult45.— Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) August 15, 2018…so once again, just like with the firing of Comey for not kowtowing and accepting an obstruction of justice, Trumps stupidity and narcissism has made things worse for him.— Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) August 15, 2018The White House has also disclosed that the clearances of others the president considers foes may be on the chopping block as well.	Liberal
Former CIA Director John Brennan blasted President Donald Trump for revoking his security clearance in a fiery Op-Ed in Thursday’s New York Times. Trump yanked Brennan’s credentials on Wednesday as a purely political retaliatory move – what Brennan calls an “attempt to scare into silence others who might dare to challenge him.”President Trump revoked the security clearance of John Brennan, the former CIA director, in a striking act of retaliation against an outspoken critic https://t.co/RGv0eOwOti— The New York Times (@nytimes) August 16, 2018Brennan, who ran the CIA from March 2013 to January 2017, has been an outspoken critic of Trump and his connections to Russia.In his New York Times oped, Brennan explains that western democracies have been vulnerable to Russian influence because many of the major players are “readily manipulated, wittingly and unwittingly, or even bought outright by Russian intelligence operatives.”“The very freedoms and liberties that liberal Western democracies cherish and that autocracies fear have been exploited by Russian intelligence services not only to collect sensitive information but also to distribute propaganda and disinformation,” Brennan said, “increasingly via the growing number of social media platforms.”Brennan wrote that Russia’s “ability to work surreptitiously within the United States” manifests through “cultivating relationships with individuals who wield actual or potential power,” specifically focusing on “gullible or unprincipled individuals who become pliant in the hands of their Russian puppet masters.”Too often, those puppets are found.Brennan said that by the summer of 2016, he and then-FBI Director James Comey “knew that Russian intelligence services would do all they could to achieve their objectives,” which was a concerted effort to “undermine public faith in the American democratic process” and “harm the electability of the Democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton, and show preference for Mr. Trump.”These directives were coming directly from Russian President Vladimir Putin, Brennan wrote, and matters became further complicated when Trump, in July 2016, called on Russia to find Hillary Clinton’s “missing” emails. Trump ostensibly greenlighted a foreign’ adversary’s attempt to take down his political opponent.Brennan then said that based on the “highly suspicious dalliances of some American citizens with people affiliated with the Russian intelligence services,” there is only one inescapable conclusion.Mr. Trumps claims of no collusion are, in a word, hogwash.The extent of Trump’s entanglement with Russia, whether “collusion” constitutes a crime such as conspiracy, and whether Trump obstructed justice to cover up said conspiracy, are the “questions that remain” to be answered, Brennan said.Brennan also wants to knowhow many members of Trump Incorporated,” like Trump’s former campaign chair Paul Manafort and his deputy Rick Gates, “attempted to defraud the government by laundering and concealing the movement of money into their pockets.”Brennan concluded by saying Trump’s growing desperation as Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation closes in drove Trump to revoke his security clearance.Brennan called this “an attempt to scare into silence others who might dare to challenge him.”Social media defended Brennan and his criticisms of Trump.	Liberal
The term fourth estate derives from the traditional European concept of the three estates of society: the clergy, the nobility, and the commoners.The free press, often referred to as the voice of the people, is the fourth estate of society. Unlike the common people of the world, the press can regularly ask direct questions of those in power.But for the first time in the United States since McCarthyism, those in power openly target the free press. On a regular basis, the President and members of the Trump Administration attack the constitutionally guaranteed First Amendment right of United States citizens.Now, Trump refers to any press organization that fails to only praise him as the “enemies of the people.” Since his attacks against the press and on the First Amendment escalated, the news media is responding directly to the onslaught with a series of independent editorials from about 350 different newspapers around the United States.About 350 U.S. newspapers will have editorials today telling Trump that the media is not the “enemy of the people.” https://t.co/EawN2KVZz8 Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 16, 2018The Chicago Tribune decided to join their fellow members of the free press by printing their own editorial prepared by not one or two of their columnists, but the entire Chicago Tribune editorial review board. This is significant as the newspaper’s full editorial staff covers the entire spectrum of political leanings from very conservative to extremely progressive.In that Chicago Tribune united effort they stated:You may have read that, this week, scores of U.S. newspapers are responding in independently written editorials to President Trumps many attacks on journalists as enemies  his word  of the American people.”Boston Globe: “its not a coincidence that this president…has tried so hard to intimidate journalists who provide independent scrutiny.” #freepress https://t.co/CJuvvsDw0b Connie Schultz (@ConnieSchultz) August 16, 2018“As this became a national news story, we at the Tribune Editorial Board had two choices: We could stay silent and leave you wondering what message to read into that, or we could explain in our own words the dangers the presidents incitement has created.”Sacramento Bee: “We know, too, that Trumps references to us as the ‘enemy of the American People’ are no less dangerous because they happen to be strategic. That is what Nazis called Jews. Its how Joseph Stalins critics were marked for execution.” https://t.co/kft8ZhrI1z Connie Schultz (@ConnieSchultz) August 16, 2018“We chose Option 2 even though we generally avoid group editorial efforts.”“We havent written at length about Trumps vilification of journalists,” The Chicago Tribune‘s editorial continued. “Journalism isnt supposed to be about journalists. But Trump has made us part of news stories so often that well take time to talk with you about that.”Nineteen months ago, Donald Trump swore an oath to defend the U.S. Constitution. One protection in its First Amendment is the stated guarantee of a press free from government dictates, and an implied responsibility for journalists to be a check on that governments enormous powers.”“Rather than defending or at least respecting that guarantee and that responsibility, Trump has escalated from criticism to incitement: At public appearances he demonizes the reporters who cover his speeches and his crowds.”A concern for the safety of the press while in their offices and while reporting directly at events became very real when CNN reporter Jim Acosta was confronted while covering another Trump rally where the President railed against the press as shown in the following coverage.	Liberal
Aretha Franklin, long considered “one of the giants” of soul music, died today at her home in Detroit, Michigan surrounded by friends and family. She was 76.Franklin’s publicist confirmed her death to the AP.BREAKING: Publicist for Aretha Franklin says the Queen of Soul died Thursday at her home in Detroit.— The Associated Press (@AP) August 16, 2018Franklin had been “gravely ill” for some time, and her family had asked for “prayers and privacy” shortly before she passed. The family confirmed the singer’s illness to WDIV Local 4.BREAKING NEWS: I am so saddened to report that the Queen of Soul and my good friend, Aretha Franklin is gravely ill. I spoke with her family members this morning. She is asking for your prayers at this time. Ill have more details as Im allowed to release.— Evrod Cassimy (@EvrodCassimy) August 13, 2018BREAKING: 'Queen of Soul' Aretha Franklin is seriously ill, a person close to the singer confirms to AP.— The Associated Press (@AP) August 13, 2018Franklin had battled health problems for years and had not performed in public since November 2017, when she performedfor the Elton John AIDS Foundation in New York. Last summer, she canceled a series of concerts “on doctor’s orders.” In March 2018, she announcedher doctor had recommended she take a break from touring altogether, and pulled out of the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival.Born and raised in Detroit, Michigan, Franklin began singing as a child and was signed to her first recording deal withJ.V.B. Records when she was 14. Franklin specialized in gospel music and did not release her first secular album until 1961 when she was 18. The album,Aretha: With the Ray Bryant Combo,featured her first single to chart theBillboardHot 100, “Won’t Be Long.” That same year, Franklin recorded the standard“Rock-a-Bye Your Baby with a Dixie Melody” and scored not onlyher first top 40 single, but her first international hit.It wasn’t until 1966, however, that Franklin achieved true commercial success. After she signed to Atlantic Records, Franklin recorded the songs which would make her a household name, including“I Never Loved a Man (The Way I Love You),” which became her first top ten pop single. In April 1966, she released her cover of Otis Redding’s “Respect,” which became her signature song. Herdebut Atlantic album,I Never Loved a Man the Way I Love You, later went gold. Her follow-ups,Lady SoulandAretha Now, included some of Franklin’s most popular songs, including “Ain’t No Way,” “Think,” and “Chain of Fools.”Franklin’s success continued into the 1970s, and she recorded several more top-ten singles, including “Spanish Harlem” and “Day Dreaming.” Although her 1973 albumHey Now Hey was a commercial failure, Franklin still managed to top the R&B charts with songssuch as “Until You Come Back to Me” and “I’m in Love.” Her career slowed down after several more commercial bombs, and she chose to leave Atlantic Records and to sign with Arista Records instead, where she hit another artistic zenith. In the 1980s, Franklin’s albums, includingAretha,Love All the Hurt Away, and Who’s Zoomin’ Who? brought her a success which nearly matched her output in the 1960s and 1970s. Songs such as “Jumpin’ Jack Flash,” “Freeway of Love,” and “I Knew You Were Waiting for Me” (with the late George Michael) brought a new generation of fans.After a brief lull, Frankin’s dance single, “A Deeper Love,” managed to chart, and she returned to the top 40 with “Willing to Forgive” in 1994. And with “A Rose is Still a Rose” (produced by Lauryn Hill), Franklin enjoyed another top 40 hit; the resulting album also went gold. Franklin’s career slowed down thereafter, but it wasn’t without further success. Her 2003 album,So Damn Happy, won a Grammy for the song “Wonderful,” and after releasing a compilation album and a holiday album, she made headlines for several acclaimed public appearances, including a compilation onThe Late Show with David Lettermanwith Cissy Houston providing backup vocals……and a performance of “(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman” at the 2015 Kennedy Center Honors.Franklin had been the subject of several health hoaxes, most recently one in November 2017 which prompted messages from worried fans concerned that she’d died. A Twitter account bearing the username @ArethaFranklin shared the “news” that Franklin had passed away. (The account has since been deleted.)in 2011, Franklin sat down with Robinson to squelch rumors thatshe was battling pancreatic cancer. I dont know where pancreatic cancer came from. I was sitting there reading the newspaper and it was saying someone in my family said that. No one in my family ever said that to anybody, Franklinsaidat the time.	Liberal
A new poll from Navigator Research, conducted by the Global Strategy Group, has bad news for Republicans who’ve indicated they plan to run in lockstep with President Donald Trump for re-election this November. The poll found that Republican support suffers when Republicans center their campaigns around the president’s personality and record. Democrats, however, enjoy a lead when they portray Republicans as Trump’s “servants.”The poll’s findings benefit Democrats significantly:Talking about Trump is also a delicate matter. The poll recommends that Democrats attack Republicans for failing to rein Trump in, and nearly60 percent of independent voters said that issue would make them less likely to support a candidate in November. The pollsters note that, when talking about politicians who support Trump, Democratsshould describe them as showing no backbone, putting party over country, and acting like Yes Men.” Language calling Republicans “complicit” in Trump’s actions does not sway swing voters, the pollsters found.Global Strategy Group conducted the national online survey of 1,028 registered voters from Aug. 2 to Aug. 5. There was also a survey of an additional 100 independent voters.The Global Strategy Group poll comes as Gallup’s latest poll shows that the presidentearned a 39 percent approval rating with 56 percent disapproving of his performance. Gallupa week earlier had shown a 41 percent approval rating for Trump, and a RealClear Politics average of other polls conducted this month “reflected a median 43.3 percent approval rating compared to a 52.2 percent disapproval rating.”Gallups latest approval rating of Trump came at the 569-day mark in his first term, at a time when President’s Clinton, Reagan, and Carter each had similarly lackluster ratings.Trump’s approval ratings have been dealt significant blows because of his approval of dictators, and his approval rating dipped to 38 percent after his meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin in July,and, more specifically, after he sided with Putin over the assessment from U.S. intelligence agencies that Russian operatives had launched cyberattacks against the United States in its attempt to subvert the 2016 presidential election and undermine American democracy.	Liberal
While reading a prepared statement from President Donald Trump, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders announced Wednesday that the President ordered the revocation of the security clearance for a former government official. The announcement that former Trump administration officials now under investigation for a variety of criminal offenses would be long overdue.This was not that announcement.I have a unique constitutional responsibility to protect the nation’s classified information, including by controlling access to it. Today, in fulfilling that responsibility, I have decided to revoke the security clearance of John Brennan, former director of the Central Intelligence Agency.”Instead of publicly revoking the clearances of fired and resigned Trump administration officials like Hope Hicks or Michael Flynn, Trump decided to begin revoking clearances of his political opponentsthose critics with expert credentials and federal pedigrees who take exception to the running of the Trump White House.According to the President’s statement, the action is justified because:Mr. Brennan’s lying and recent conduct characterized by increasingly frenzied commentary is wholly inconsistent with access to the nation’s most closely held secrets.”So who is the first target of Trump’s purge?Brennan spent 25 years with the CIA before establishing and directing the National Counterterrorism Center after 9/11 at the request of President George W. Bush. The White House provided no proof or even hinted that Brennan misused his security clearance at any time.The lies Trump alludes to are criticisms Brennan publicly made of the President’s policies and lack of security protocols that lead to situations like people without clearances in the Oval Office daily for over a year and secret recordings being made in the Situation Room. Since those are matters of public record, they are not actually lies.Its astounding how often you fail to live up to minimum standards of decency, civility, & probity. Seems like you will never understand what it means to be president, nor what it takes to be a good, decent, & honest person. So disheartening, so dangerous for our Nation. https://t.co/eI9HaCec1m John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) August 14, 2018Brennan left federal service for a few years after completing his special assignment from Bush, but often consulted on issues at the request of the White House. Then in 2009 Obama asked Brennan to return as a Homeland Security Adviser then in 2013 to head the CIA.I served 6 Presidents, 3 Rs & 3Ds. I directly supported Clinton, Bush 43, and Obama. While I didn’t agree with all their policy choices, I admired and respected all of them, as they put country above their personal interests. Not so with you, as your self adoration is disgraceful https://t.co/A1brb0HW3V John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) April 5, 2018The one-time lowly analyst who worked his way up through the ranks provides a wealth of experience and knowledge on matters of national security and counterterrorism. It is for that reason his clearance was retained by the government after he retired in January 2017.I had the privilege of working with @JohnBrennan at the White House. I have never met anyone more dedicated to defending our national security than John. He will now be just as vigorous & vigilant in defending American values, including free speech, without a sec clearance. Michael McFaul (@McFaul) August 15, 2018Separated and retired employees that the government chooses to retain clearances for gain no special access however so they pose no inherent risks. They cannot walk into restricted areas or request classified or top-secret documents.So what benefit did his security clearance have for John Brennan? None, really.John Brennan doesn’t just call up the CIA and say, “Hey I want to be briefed on ‘this’ or ‘that'”.The CIA calls Brennan when they need his help and experience in securing our nation.Trump didn’t attack Brennan today. He attacked the United States of America. Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) August 15, 2018The sole purpose of retained clearances is for the benefit of the government. If a retired of separated expert’s help is needed, they can be called on for advice or assistance or in the event of catastrophic events like 9/11, to fill in where mass vacancies of experienced personnel happen too quickly for the government to handle through normal hiring or training.So why revoke a clearance that only benefits the government? John Brennan himself spoke to that on Twitter.This action is part of a broader effort by Mr. Trump to suppress freedom of speech & punish critics. It should gravely worry all Americans, including intelligence professionals, about the cost of speaking out.”My principles are worth far more than clearances. I will not relent.”This action is part of a broader effort by Mr. Trump to suppress freedom of speech & punish critics. It should gravely worry all Americans, including intelligence professionals, about the cost of speaking out. My principles are worth far more than clearances. I will not relent. https://t.co/TNzOxhP9ux John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) August 15, 2018As part of the President’s statement, Sanders listed other targets. Each person on the following list is both a seasoned expert and a Trump critic.	Liberal
Earlier this month a slew of social media platforms including iTunes, Facebook, YouTube, Spotify and Pinterest, banned Alex Jones and his conspiracy theory promoting website InfoWars. While Jones claims it violates his right to free speech, the platforms bowed to mounting public pressure to enforce the requirements of each companys own terms of service (TOS).Twitter now joins them, at least temporarily.People on social media platforms either personally experience suspensions or bans or know people who have. The push to ban Alex Jones centered on the easily documented and proven double standards each platform used. If an individual called for people to kill someone, they could have their accounts suspended temporarily or outright banned. But if Alex Jones told his many listeners to commit violent acts, Jones suffered no consequences.The lone major holdout on the removal of Alex Jones and Infowars for repeated flagrant violations of TOS agreements was Twitter. However their founder and CEO Jack Dorsey explained Jones never violated Twitters rules, but if he did Dorsey’s company would hold Jones and Infowars to the same standard as allor most with one major exception at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenueother users.On August 8, Dorsey took to Twitter and stated:We didnt suspend Alex Jones or Infowars yesterday. We know thats hard for many but the reason is simple: he hasnt violated our rules. Well enforce if he does.”We didnt suspend Alex Jones or Infowars yesterday. We know thats hard for many but the reason is simple: he hasnt violated our rules. Well enforce if he does. And well continue to promote a healthy conversational environment by ensuring tweets arent artificially amplified. jack (@jack) August 8, 2018However many soon pointed out a small problem with Dorsey’s reasoning. They foundwithout looking very hardmany examples of the Alex Jones and the separate Infowars Twitter accounts violating the platform’s TOS agreement.Just a day later on August 9, CNN’s Oliver Darcy presented a series of Jones or Infowars Twitter posts all in clear violation of Twitter’s TOS. After the information was published, all of the posts were deleted from the social media platform.Darcy also used an email fromTwitter’s vice president for trust and safety, Del Harvey, against the tech giant. Harvey, in a message to employees, assured them that if the content cited by YouTube or Facebook that got Jones banned had appeared on Twitter, they would also ban him.Not so fast, corrected Darcy.	Liberal
Fox News Host Tucker Carlson launched into a diatribe against refugees and undocumented immigrants during his show Tuesday night.Carlson argued that being born in the United States should not grant citizenship if the child is born to undocumented immigrants before going on to decry refugees benefiting from public assistance. He mainly decried their use of SNAP benefits–which can only be acquired by undocumented immigrants if their children are born in the United States. Naturally, Carlson’s next step was to argue for the end of birth right citizenship.Carlson cited former Trump official Michael Anton’sWashington Postarticle last month that argued to abolish citizenship as a birth right. Anton insisted that “an executive order could specify to federal agencies that the children of non-citizens are not citizens.” Carlson echoes Anton in his segment, arguingIf it istrue that the Constitution does not mandatecitizenship for anyone born hereregardless of status or thestatus of the parents,then why are we acting thatthat’s the law?The answer is because it is the law. The first clause of the 14th Amendment states:All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and the State wherein they reside.Though many Republicans argue that the clause needs clarification, the Supreme Court has already determined what the clause means. Regardless, it cannot be revoked with an executive order. Nevertheless, Carlson used the assertion as fodder for why refugees should not be given assistance to provide food to their families. The only way for undocumented immigrants to receive SNAP benefits are if their children are born in the United States. Tucker Carlson–who has a net worth of $16 million–thinks that is too much of a luxury.He still wasn’t done shaming refugees and immigrants.	Liberal
George Conway, a conservative attorney andthe husband of presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway, once again tore into President Donald Trump in a Twitter post on Tuesday.This time, it was in reference to the firing of Omarosa Manigault-Newman from the White House in December.Trump tweeted on Monday that Newman was “not smart” and that he heard “really bad things.”Wacky Omarosa, who got fired 3 times on the Apprentice, now got fired for the last time. She never made it, never will. She begged me for a job, tears in her eyes, I said Ok. People in the White House hated her. She was vicious, but not smart. I would rarely see her but heard….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018The president added that he only kept Newman around the West Wing because she “only said GREAT things about me.”…really bad things. Nasty to people & would constantly miss meetings & work. When Gen. Kelly came on board he told me she was a loser & nothing but problems. I told him to try working it out, if possible, because she only said GREAT things about me – until she got fired!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018Conway, a frequent Trump critic, called out Trump for his flagrant dishonesty and mob-like perception of loyalty. He also blasted Trump for having “kowtowed to a dangerous competitor,” which in this case, refers to the president’s soft spot for Russian President Vladimir Putin.“Likewise, what if a CEO routinely made false and misleading statements about himself, the company, and results, and publicly attacked business partners, company divisions (w/ scare quotes!), employees, and analysts, and kowtowed to a dangerous competitor?”Interesting analogy.  Likewise, what if a CEO routinely made false and misleading statements about himself, the company, and results, and publicly attacked business partners, company divisions (w/ scare quotes!), employees, and analysts, and kowtowed to a dangerous competitor? https://t.co/dTjUk7kApQ— George Conway (@gtconway3d) August 14, 2018Conway was responding to Philip Bump of the WashingtonPost, who on Tuesday asked: “How would the board of a company react if the CEO told them that he hadn’t fired an unqualified employee who was disliked by coworkers because the employee constantly praised him?”How would the board of a company react if the CEO told them that he hadn't fired an unqualified employee who was disliked by coworkers because the employee constantly praised him? https://t.co/HmVOcYaceK— Philip Bump (@pbump) August 14, 2018Monday was a busy day for the Conway-Trump Twitter saga. A mere two hours later, the feudensued again.Trump went after Republican Ohio Governor John Kasich in a tweet, calling him “very unpopular” and blaming him for Congressional candidate Troy Balderson’s underperformance in last week’s special election. Balderson won, but by less than 2,000 votes in a district Trump carried overwhelmingly in 2016.The very unpopular Governor of Ohio (and failed presidential candidate) @JohnKasich hurt Troy Baldersons recent win by tamping down enthusiasm for an otherwise great candidate. Even Kasichs Lt. Governor lost Gov. race because of his unpopularity. Credit to Troy on the BIG WIN!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018Conway fired back with Trump’s disapproval numbers, courtesy of aCincinnati Enquirer/Suffolk poll of Ohio voters that showed Trump’s unfavorable rating at 58.6 percent, while Kasich’s is at 34.8 percent.Cincinnati Enquirer/Suffolk 6/6-11/18 OH statewide 500 LVUnfavorable opinion of  > Donald Trump:  58.6%  > John Kasich: 34.8%https://t.co/CLkIOda8aN https://t.co/hTldDq1ZD6— George Conway (@gtconway3d) August 13, 2018Social media had some questions for Conway, most notably how he and his wife are able to share a roof while having opposing opinions about the president.	Liberal
CNN’s Don Lemon offered a sobering perspective on President Donald Trump’s history of racist and inflammatory remarks, as rumors buzz over a possible recording of Trump using the n-word during his time onThe Apprentice.Lemon said any such recording “should be a bombshell” but that the president’s own documented behavior suggests Trump using the n-word would be par for the course.Former White House aide and thriceApprentice contestantOmarosa Manigault-Newman claims in her book,Unhinged: An Insider’s Account of the Trump White House that Trump frequently used the n-word during production. Trump responded to rumors by calling Newman a “dog.”When you give a crazed, crying lowlife a break, and give her a job at the White House, I guess it just didnt work out. Good work by General Kelly for quickly firing that dog!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2018Lemon suggested that if such recording exists, little would change because the American people have become numb to Trump’s jarring and divisive rhetoric.It’s worth noting that a year ago today in the wake of Heather Heyer’s murder by a white supremacist at a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, Trump said there were “very fine people” on both sides of the protest.Last year, neo-Nazis rallied in Charlottesville and killed a counter protester by driving into a crowd. Never forget that rather than condemning white supremacists, Trump instead declared there were "very fine people on both sides."RIP #HeatherHeyer pic.twitter.com/R9QLRoh0IN— Bishop Talbert Swan (@TalbertSwan) August 11, 2018“It would be rational to think that if this purported tape of Trump using the N-word exists  and there is no proof that it does  but if it did, it would be a bombshell, right?” Lemon said. “Right? Itd have to be… or would it?”Lemon began by playing a clip of Trump calling Mexicans “rapists and criminals,” which is how he kicked off his bid for the White House in the lobby of Trump Tower in 2015. Trump later admitted in a June 2016 deposition that his racially-charged comments were planned.In Trump's videotaped deposition, he implies that comments he made about Mexicans during his campaign kick off were premeditated. pic.twitter.com/3jmA9zjnmi— BuzzFeed News (@BuzzFeedNews) September 30, 2016“What if I told you,” Lemon said, “that I have a secretly recorded tape of him [Trump] bragging about sexually assaulting women?” Lemon proceeded to play the infamous 2005Access Hollywoodrecording in which Trump can be heard saying women let him “gram them by the pussy” because he’s famous.Lemon continued: “What if I told you I have a tape of him mocking a disabled person?” Lemon then played a clip of Trump mimicking New York Times reporter Serge Kovaleski.“And what if I told you I have a tape of him calling African-Americans, and I’m quoting here, ‘sons of bitches?'” Lemon asked, before showing Trump encouraging NFL team owners to fire players who kneel during the National Anthem.“Get that son of a bitch off the field right now,” Trump said.Or how about when Trump urged his supporters to “knock the crap out of” protesters at one of his rallies?	Liberal
Several anchors at CNNa favored target of President Donald Trump in his attacks on the mediafound themselves wondering at the response of White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders to questions about her boss during Tuesday’s press briefing. When asked to guarantee no Trump n-word tapes would surface, Sanders would not.But Trump stated on Twitter Monday night, the n-word never passed his lips in the entirety of his life as it is not in his vocabulary.I dont have that word in my vocabulary, and never have.”.@MarkBurnettTV called to say that there are NO TAPES of the Apprentice where I used such a terrible and disgusting word as attributed by Wacky and Deranged Omarosa. I dont have that word in my vocabulary, and never have. She made it up. Look at her MANY recent quotes saying…. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2018As her boss leaves no doubt to the possibility of any tape ever surfacing, CNN host Jake Tapper on The Lead and Anderson Cooper on Anderson Cooper 360 both asked why Sanders could not guarantee no tape will someday surface.During the White House press briefing Tuesday,NBC’s Kristen Welker asks Trump’s press secretary if she asked the President about the possibility of tapes or if he said the n-word. Each time, Sanders demurred stating since the President already addressed the question on Twitter, it made her asking him unnecessary.That adherence to her standard response’the President already addressed that’matched prior press briefings as a review on Anderson Cooper 360 showed. But then Sanders went off script for Welker’s final question.The NBC reporter asked:Can you stand at the podium and guarantee the American people theyll never hear Donald Trump utter the N-word on a recording, in any context?”This time, Sanders offered two disclaimers in her responses.First she stated:I can’t guarantee anything. I can tell you the President addressed this question directly. I can tell you that I’ve neverheard him use that term or anything similar.”Welker noticed and followed up with, “Just to be clear, you can’t guarantee it?”To which Sanders responded:Look, I havent been in every single room.”Sanders then repeated her usual standard response of ‘the President already addressed that.’Watch the Jake Tapper The Lead segment featuring the exchange here:After watching the press briefing clip, Tapper remarked:I mean, that’s pretty stunning. First of all, I’m not sure why today of all days she decided that lying was something she wasnt willing to do so kudos to her for the truth on that.But the idea that you cant make that guarantee… Why cant you make that guarantee?”The Lead panelist Karine Jean-Pierre, a senior advisor with MoveOn.org answered Tapper stating:Because anyone who’s been paying attention knows that, uh…Well basically if you dont know that Donald Trump is a racist then you havent been paying attention. So even she knows she cannot categorically say that Donald Trump is not a racist and also just look at his Twitter!”Later Tuesday, CNN host Anderson Cooper stated much the same things as Tapper and his panelists before him. On Anderson Cooper 360, the CNN host made the following statement:	Liberal
The White House held apress briefing Tuesday afternoon to combat accusations from former aide Omarosa Manigault Newman. The now-estranged aide released tapes of a conversation between her, spokeswoman Katrina Pierson, and Housing & Urban Development Secretary Lynne Patton appearing to corroborate that President Donald Trump had been recorded using the N-word.While White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said that she couldn’t guarantee that a tape of the president using the N-word doesn’t exist, she began to tout the president’s black employment rate. Sanders asserted that Donald Trump created 700,000 jobs during his first year and a half in office to former President Barack Obama’s 195,000 in eight years in office. The claim was false.The exchange begins at approximately 20:50.Sanders said:This President, since he took office, in the year and a half that hes been here, has created 700,000 new jobs for African Americans. Thats 700,000 African Americans that are working now that werent working when this President took place. When President Obama left, after eight years in office  eight years in office, he had only created 800  or 195,000 jobs for African Americans. President Trump in his first year and a half has already tripled what President Obama did in eight years.The rate of black job creation hasn’t notably changed between the two presidents. Sanders’s claim that 700,000 African Americans have gained employment during Trump’s term is true, but by no means does it dwarf the black employment rate of President Obama’s entire eight years. By the end of Obama’s two terms, three million jobs had been filled by African Americans.The gaffe was promptly noted on Twitter by the White House’s own economic advisory council.Apologies for @WhiteHouseCEA's earlier miscommunication to @PressSec.— CEA (@WhiteHouseCEA) August 14, 2018However, the council went on to tweet figures during Obama’s first term that showed black employment falling, not mentioning the Great Recession which brought the national unemployment rate to upwards of 10 percent–before the current 94 month streak of job growth began later during Obama’s tenure. The chart also begins in November 2008, nearly three months before Obama’s inauguration in January of that year.Per @PressSec briefing today: pic.twitter.com/uQzsAkOH2i— CEA (@WhiteHouseCEA) August 14, 2018Sanders eventually apologized for the false statement.Correction from todays briefing: Jobs numbers for Pres Trump and Pres Obama were correct, but the time frame for Pres Obama wasnt. Im sorry for the mistake, but no apologies for the 700,000 jobs for African Americans created under President Trump https://t.co/EXGvbliwlS— Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) August 15, 2018The statement is beginning to shed light on the veracity of this administration’s claims on black employment–claims it has reverted to frequently throughout a tenure fraught with accusations of racist sentiments and policies.	Liberal
Former Mexican President Vicente Fox, perhaps best known in the United States for his social media sparring with President Donald Trump, has once again trolled Trump on Twitter, this time over the firing of FBI Agent Peter Strzok.Strzok, one of our nation’s most accomplished counterintelligence officers, was fired last Friday because he sent anti-Trump texts to FBI lawyer Lisa Page prior to the 2016 presidential election. Strzok led the election-era investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server during her time as Secretary of State.Trump boasted in a Monday tweet that “the Crooked Hillary Clinton investigation” was a “sham.” He then called for the Clinton email probe to be reopened.It was a total fraud on the American public and should be properly redone!Just fired Agent Strzok, formerly of the FBI, was in charge of the Crooked Hillary Clinton sham investigation. It was a total fraud on the American public and should be properly redone!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018Fox responded with his own version of the tweet that used Trump’s own words against him.I would love to read a tweet that says:Just fired @realDonaldTrump, now former president of the U.S., was in charge of the most crooked administration ever. It was a total fraud on the American people and should be properly corrected.I would love to read a tweet that says: Just fired @realDonaldTrump, now former president of the U.S., was in charge of the most crooked administration ever. It was a total fraud on the American people and should be properly corrected. https://t.co/6YIBf64DMg— Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) August 13, 2018Reactions poured in on social media. Many found Strzok’s firing to be a disturbing, politically-motivated maneuver."In fact, in his decades of service, Special Agent Strzok has proved himself to be one of the countrys top counterintelligence officers, leading to only one conclusion  the decision to terminate was taken in response to political pressure, and to punish Special Agent Strzok…— Sammy Scott (@SFDom) August 13, 2018Strzok was one of FBI's top spycatchers.  This firing is an assault on the Republic.  Is anyone LISTENING?— Tom;  NB Picture is of Heather Heyer  RIP (@tomroarty1) August 13, 2018You got that right. #Strzok helped bring down deep cover Russian spy ring #TheAmericans show was based on. FBI #OperationGhostStories. America is less secure losing his expert knowledge, experience on Russian spies. @maddow's story on it. https://t.co/2Ffc4gDcsR— Kat  (@katw423) August 13, 2018Distraught Americans agreed with Fox.We hope for this EVERY DAMN SECOND O EVERY DAMN DAY!!!!!— MegsCallahanWeiland (@AGingeredLife) August 13, 2018Trustt me, there are millions of Americans that feel the same way.— Julie Ann  (@jag618) August 13, 2018“Headline: President Trump was arrested for treason along with accomplices Pence, Giuliani(sp?), DJT jr., Roger Stone, Jeffrey Beauregard Sessions, and others. In other news, Rick Perry still hasnt found his Washington D.C. office in two years.”Headline:  President Trump was arrested for treason along with accomplices Pence, Giuliani(sp?), DJT jr., Roger Stone, Jeffrey Beauregard Sessions, and others.  In other news, Rick Perry still hasnt found his Washington D.C. office in two years.— Dan Malloy (@dmindm) August 15, 2018Though some dreams are more farfetched than others.Id like to add:Opening arguments in the former Presidents trial are scheduled to begin on January 7, 2019. The corruption trial of former Vice President Pence is scheduled for later this year. President Pelosi has stated that she is pleased to see justice being served.— lAmTheResistance (@Brklygrad) August 14, 2018The American people get their first referendum on Trump in the November midterm elections in 85 days.85 days, Vicente. It begins.— Mel Neuhaus (@acehanna2) August 13, 2018Strzok is the third high-ranking FBI official involved with the Russia probe and the investigation into Hillary Clintons email to be fired since Trump took office.	Liberal
Sunday on his weekly HBO news recap showLast Week Tonighthost John Oliver began the show with racists. Highlighting the greatest hits of the week in racism, Oliver covered everything from the poorly attended Unite the Right rally in Washington DC all the way toLaura Ingraham exposing herself on national television.“We begin with racists,” Oliver stated, then alluded to all the incidents caught on camera of people calling the police to complain about Black people barbecuing in parks, swimming in pools, mowing lawns and using coupons.[Racists] are the reason 911 now has to answer calls with: Is this a real emergency, or is there just a black person nearby?”Oliver followed with news of the Unite the Right rally saying, “As we tape this show, right now tonight, the ‘Unite the Right 2’ rally is winding down.”A massive dozens of white nationalists apparently gathered in DC, where they were met by hundreds of counter-protesters calling them all assholes. And look, while that numerical discrepancy is heartening, lets not get too reassured here.”Watch the full segment here:“Because this week also brought a visceral reminder of the problems that were facing,” Oliver continued before showing the results of a CNN poll. When asked if President Donald Trump is racist, 49 percent of United States voters think he is a racist while 47 percent do not.But Oliver’s complaint focused on the fact only 49 percent think Trump is a racist, not that the U.S. voters perceive their POTUS so poorly.It is both shocking that its 49 percent and its equally shocking that its only 49 percent ’cause it’s not like he’s been hiding it. It’s been his brand for decades now. It’s like only 49 percent of people thinking Kermit is a frog.”It’s in his name! Whether you like or hate that about him you have to admit he’s a f#&%ing frog!”The HBO host continued on to his next example.“Todays [Unite the Right] demonstration,”Oliver said tointroduce his remarks on Fox News host Laura Ingraham, “is just the culmination of a week in which Americas regular dog-whistle racism became uncomfortably loud.” Oliver then showed a clip from Ingraham Angle.Ingraham again drew public ire after she lamented the folly of illegal and legal immigration changing the demographics of America.Oliver played a clip of Ingraham’s actual comments then made the following remarks about them.	Liberal
Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) blasted President Donald Trump in a Twitter tirade on Tuesday, urging the American people to not be distracted by Trump’s whining and diversionary insults lobbed at his detractors.The CaliforniaDemocrat and stalwart Trump critic began by iterating her focus: taking Trump down.“Trump thinks he can distract us w/ his unhinged rants, meltdowns, and name calling at his rallies. Not me,” Waters wrote.“I’m focused on his obstruction of justice, collusion w/ Russia, conspiracy, and jail time.”Trump thinks he can distract us w/ his unhinged rants, meltdowns, and name calling at his rallies. Not me. I'm focused on his obstruction of justice, collusion w/ Russia, conspiracy, and jail time.— Maxine Waters (@RepMaxineWaters) August 14, 2018Trump recently referred to Waters as an “extraordinarily low IQ person,” and warned her to be “careful what you wish for” after she encouraged Americans to confront and heckle members of the president’s administration.Congresswoman Maxine Waters, an extraordinarily low IQ person, has become, together with Nancy Pelosi, the Face of the Democrat Party. She has just called for harm to supporters, of which there are many, of the Make America Great Again movement. Be careful what you wish for Max!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 25, 2018Waters continued, penning the hashtag #ConManDon to reference the president. The Congresswoman tore into Trump’s family separation policy along the U.S.-Mexican border.Let’s not allow #ConManDon to divert our attention from the outrageous consequences of his zero tolerance policy. Roughly 500-600 children remain separated from their parents. We must reunite the families.Let's not allow #ConManDon to divert our attention from the outrageous consequences of his zero tolerance policy. Roughly 500-600 children remain separated from their parents. We must reunite the families.— Maxine Waters (@RepMaxineWaters) August 14, 2018ConManDon has nice ring to it.— Devin Uzan (@DevinUzan) August 14, 2018Waters then accused Trump and his lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, of playing games with the prospect of Trump sitting down for an interview with Special Counsel Robert Mueller. Trump’s legal team has been in a back-and-forth with Mueller over what would be an appropriate line of questions for the president.Sing.. Auntie.  pic.twitter.com/indzkE0fPp— Yvette Smith-Smith (@ysmithwas) August 14, 2018Waters believes it’s all for showand that Trump will not end up speaking with Mueller – because the president is incapable of telling the truth.“Don’t believe for a second that Giuliani & Trump are honestly negotiating an interview w/ Mueller,” Waters said. “Trump’s lawyers never intended him to interview w/ Mueller b/c they know he would get caught in his lies and lying to the FBI is a crime. The president will never meet w/ Mueller.”Don't believe for a second that Giuliani & Trump are honestly negotiating an interview w/ Mueller. Trump's lawyers never intended him to interview w/ Mueller b/c they know he would get caught in his lies and lying to the FBI is a crime. The president will never meet w/ Mueller.— Maxine Waters (@RepMaxineWaters) August 14, 2018The only thing Trump & Giuliani is doing right now is telling you & everybody else exactly what they want to hear so that they can continue committing crimes behind all the distractions to eventually destroy America for Russia— VENUS HEARD U (@VanessaHeard6) August 14, 2018This is what they are really trying to hide and they are telling all these lies in contradicting themselves on a continuous basis to confuse the public to hide the truth while they commit crimes behind the lies pic.twitter.com/rakuSRpxMI— VENUS HEARD U (@VanessaHeard6) August 14, 2018Waters also ripped Trump’s former campaign chair, Paul Manafort, for his effort to sell a Cabinet seat to a banking executive. Manafort is on trial for numerous financial crimes, including exploiting a bank CEO’s desire to be Army Secretary as a means for getting millions of dollars in loans.Waters didn’t let Steve Calk, the CEO of Federal Savings Bank in Chicago, off the hook for wasting his customers’ money.Can you believe Federal Savings Bank’s CEO forced through a $16 million loan for Paul “Money Laundering” Manafort all because the CEO wanted to be in Trump’s swamp cabinet? How many small businesses could have benefitted from those funds?Can you believe Federal Savings Bank's CEO forced through a $16 million loan for Paul "Money Laundering" Manafort all because the CEO wanted to be in Trump's swamp cabinet?  How many small businesses could have benefitted from those funds?— Maxine Waters (@RepMaxineWaters) August 14, 2018Bad choice. They were the largest loans in the banks history and are now in default, likely to cost the bank $10-16 million. Everything Trump and his cronies touch… dies.— Bruce Chanen (@bmchanen) August 14, 2018Social media overwhelmingly backed Waters, and the responses were golden.	Liberal
A CNN Poll conducted by SSRS shows 66 percent of Americans believe Robert Mueller should try to conclude his investigation into the possible conspiracy between the Russian government and the Trump campaign before the crucial 2018 midterm elections. But is this a question that should even be asked?While the majority of Americans may want the investigation to conclude before November, only 37 percent disapprove of the investigation, reinforcing that wanting the investigation to end doesn’t necessarily translate as a lack of support for it.This led Daily Beast columnist DeanObeidallah tospeculate that in addition to the Americans echoing President Donald Trump’s and his head lawyer Rudy Giuliani’s calls for the investigation to end, that 66 percent may include Americans wanting the probe come to end because they believe it will inevitably lead to an indictment of the president.New CNN poll finds 66 percent of Americans want Robert mueller investigation to end by midterms. What trump doesnt get is that a big chunk are liberals who expected trump to be indicted by now.— (((DeanObeidallah))) (@DeanObeidallah) August 14, 2018But others make a more important point about any poll regarding the Russia investigation being conducted by the Justice Department’s designated Special Counsel, Robert Mueller.When it comes to federal investigations and Justice Department matters, public opinion should be irrelevant. Criminal investigations depend only on evidence and leads, not popularity.I’d love it if the #Mueller grand jury returned indictments against every single person who conspired with, or aided or abetted Russians in their attack against Americans & our election before the #Midterms2018. But I want it to be completed; not just ended. This poll Q is dumb. https://t.co/cIbmUgJksN Jo Lown ?????????? (@JLownLaw) August 14, 2018When did voter opinion become a valid directive for a criminal investigation. xeyeldinTX (@Katl1964) August 14, 2018@CNN Why take such polls? What possible good are they? Should criminal investigations be dictated by the whims of the fickle? Why not focus on the actual investigation? The players, the back story, the allegations, etc. Problem is, people do not realize how long Watergate lasted. Elizabeth Cronin (@CroninClan) August 14, 2018I’m sure he’d love to have it all finished. Unfortunately, to do a proper investigation takes time…. and you’ve got to follow all the leads! I’m thinking there’s quite a few!?? Peter Petrides (@HappyPete55) August 14, 2018What’s more, higher percentages favoring the investigation ending may be due to the inequity in public comments on the case. While Trump, Giuliani and the rest of the President’s legal team and administration loudly and publicly decry the investigation as a witch hunt, Special Counsel Robert Mueller plays his cards extremely close to his chest, as his years as a combat Marine and in the FBI taught him.Others point out that the Whitewater investigation involving President Bill Clinton, the Benghazi investigation of President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the private email server investigation of Secretary Clinton each lasted years. Yet neither of the Clintons or Obama maintained a constant chorus in the press and social media calling the investigations witch hunts or demanding they end.All three and their administrations knew an investigation must run its full course.7 Benghazi investigations 2 1/2years – nothing found =Witch Hunt2 Email investigations, 11 hours testifying, no wrong doing found =Witch Hunt millions of dollars wasted for nothing1 investigation- 20+ indictments 5 guilty pleas & more Not witch Hunt RyanO (@ryan31671) August 15, 2018Mr. Trump…Investigation Results: ??Whitewater=6yrs ??Benghazi=4yrs ??Hillary Emails=2yrs Indictments=0 Guilty Pleas=0 Convictions=0Ongoing Investigation Results Update: ??Trump-Russia=1year Indictments=19 Guilty Pleas=5 Convictions=4A Witch Hunt? A Hoax? Blue Beach Song™ (@BlueBeachSong) August 14, 2018If there was no collusion what are you afraid of? Why do you want the probe to end? Hillary never asked for the Benghazi witch hunt to end, nor the nonsensical email investigation. She was relaxed and cool. What are you afraid they are going to find? @HillaryClinton #Benghazi librulgal (@shirleyShirl1) August 14, 2018#Benghazi = 0 Indictments #ClintonEmails = 0 IndictmentsClinton has been investigated for YEARS & found NOTHING#Clinton testified 11hr You Won’t Even Talk To Mueller…(GUILTY)Here’s what #Mueller‘s “Witch Hunt” Has found so far#TheResistance pic.twitter.com/Ixa8Ai3ZWw DX™ (@Dax_x98) August 14, 2018And while increased calls for the investigation to conclude will almost certainly buoy the Trump camp, the poll altogether spells bad tidings for the Trump administration as CNN Editor-at-LargeChris Cillizza points out.	Liberal
Fading one-time conservative media darling Ann Coulterwho only seems to gain notice now by criticizing President Donald Trumpoffered him some more unsolicited advice onThe Howie Carr Show. But despite the source’s apparent animosity toward Trump, Coulter’s suggestion is still sound.To avoid situations like the one the Trump administration now finds themself in with fired White House staffer Omarosa Manigault-Newman, Coulter advises:How about hiring smart people?”When host Steve Robinson asked Coulter “what the Hell [Omarosa]” was doing at the White House in the first place, Coulter maintained the former contestant on The Apprentice and self-described reality TV actress is one of many bad hiring decisions made by the President.Other bad hiring decisions according to the conservative pundit and author? Those include first daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law Jared Kushner.“On one hand, he could hire people who are smart, know a lot about politics and supported his agenda, but who he’s only known since he adopted that agenda when he first ran for president,” Coulter responded. “Or, he could hire people with no experience in politics because he’s known them a long time, because you know, then at least he’s going to get loyalty.”But because he chooses the latter instead of the former, Coulter maintains Trump creates his own scandals and problems.They know nothing about what they’re doing. There may be no wall and the government may be blowing up every single day but at least he’ll have their loyalty. Nope! Doesn’t have their loyalty either!”“How about hiring smart people trying to help you?” Coulter suggested before making certain to state she was not volunteering.“I’m not bidding for a job, I don’t want a job,” the currently technically unemployed Coulter stated. While she maintains her website and writes a column carried by a few conservative publications, Coulter no longer enjoys the full-time radio or television jobs she once had.As someone who now gains most of her media attention by being a vocal critic of Trump, she would hardly qualify as “trying to help” him anyway.You name all the people who would have been so great in this White House and we would have a wall by now,” Coulter added referring again to a frequent target of her Trump criticismsthe campaign promised wall that Mexico would pay for.Coulter concluded with:But no, it has to be people from The Apprentice and his kids.”Others expressed the same view of how Trump finds himself the center of repeated scandals and investigations since taking office.	Liberal
Omarosa Manigault Newman’s latest book,Unhinged: An Insider’s Account of the Trump White Houseand her subsequent release of tapes from the White House are shaking up Washington and the nation.One of the claims in the book that’s been scrutinized is Manigault Newman’s assertion that tapes exist of Trump using the N-word. Despite heavy denials from Trump, his administration and his supporters, a newly-released tape appears to vindicate Manigault Newman’s claims.President Trump says @Omarosa lied when she called him a racist who has said the N-word on tape. But a new recording, obtained by CBS News, seems to back up her story that several Trump advisers discussed an alleged tape during the 2016 campaign https://t.co/bmyNaILEPQ pic.twitter.com/uvBZJLRywk— CBS News (@CBSNews) August 14, 2018The conversation–which took place a month before the 2016 election–occurs between Manigault Newman, former Trump spokeswoman Katrina Pierson, and Lynne Pattona member of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and personal friend of the president.While none of them appear to have personally heard the tape, they appear to discuss that President Trump acknowledged its existence, with Patton saying:He goes, ‘How do you think I should handle it?’ And I told him exactly what you just said, Omarosa, which is, ‘Well, it depends on what scenario you are talking about.’ And he said, ‘Well, why dont you just go ahead and put it to bed.Pierson responds:He said  no, he said it. He is embarrassed.The tape’s existence has long been rumored, but has never been released. Penn Jilette, a comedian and 2013 contestant on Celebrity Apprenticeclaimed recently in an interview, however, that Trump repeatedly made racist and sexist remarks that made him uncomfortable during the taping of the show.Trump took to Twitter this morning and berated Manigault Newman, Going so far as to call her a dog.When you give a crazed, crying lowlife a break, and give her a job at the White House, I guess it just didnt work out. Good work by General Kelly for quickly firing that dog!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2018The day before, he stressed that Manigault Newman had signed a Non-Disclosure Agreement.Wacky Omarosa already has a fully signed Non-Disclosure Agreement!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018It now appears that Trump’s counsel will be taking her to court for breaking the confidentiality agreement.Patton also took to Twitter this morning to refute the claims.Nice try, @OMAROSA.  We never disputed we had multiple conversations about the alleged Apprentice tape b/c you were obsessed with it.  What I disputed is a call CONFIRMING Luntz heard it.  To the contrary, you PROVE Trump denied saying it ASAP.  What you cant deny is December! pic.twitter.com/eCoZ48MzVE—  Lynne Patton (@LynnePatton) August 14, 2018As has Pierson, who on Monday went to Fox News before the tapes were released to deny that the conversation even happened..@Hardball Omarosa said she only just now heard the fake apprentice tape for the first time post-publication, but thats not what she told @LynnePatton on 12/12/17 at 11:30pm #Oops https://t.co/4iquVrJI53 #Unhinged— Katrina Pierson (@KatrinaPierson) August 14, 2018Notably, neither of the two women involved in the conversation have addressed why they both appear to mention personally speaking to the president about his usage of it.To many, it doesn’t matter.	Liberal
Are you excited about President Donald Trump’s Space Force? Roger Stone sure is, so much so that on Monday, he shared a picture to his Instagram of himself, Trump, and several other Trump inner-circlers wearing Space Force suitsthat are embroidered with swastikas. It is unknown who created this disturbing masterpiece.Roger Stone shares image of himself and Trump as "Space Force" wearing swastikas https://t.co/LJxEYWWIzg pic.twitter.com/By5rrBVKAM— The Hill (@thehill) August 14, 2018“Space Force all the way!”Space Force all the way!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 9, 2018Surrounding Trump are Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA), Trump’s TV lawyer Rudy Giuliani, political operative and obvious meme genius Roger Stone, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Vice President and Space Force brand ambassador Mike Pence, and Trump’s Fox News therapist, Sean Hannity.While the post has since been deleted, here’s a screenshot for your viewing pleasure:Stone, clearly not getting that this image is satire and shouldn’t be taken as a compliment, added his own caption: “I love this – proud to be in this crew – but the only lies being told are by liberal scumbags#maga#republican#infowars.”Stone wrote that he is proud to be shown wearing a swastika, which isn’t something that should ever be a thing.The real question is: is Stone prouder of the swastika patch, or of his Richard Nixon tattoo?Stone tried to twist the slogan, “in space, no one can hear you lie,” to make it apply to liberals, rather than the president.Because liberals lie their way through space, apparently, while Trump & Co. are pinnacles of truth.Stone is currently a subject in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Russian attack on the 2016 election and its possible ties to the Trump campaign. Stone’s connections toWikiLeaks and Guccifer 2.0, a hacking group suspected of carrying out Russia’s cyber warfare operations, are of particular interest to Mueller.On Monday, Stone expressed his willingness to cooperate with Mueller but under “no circumstance” would he testify against Trump, if it ever comes to that.“First of all, I have nothing that I could say about him that would be negative,” Stone told CNN’s Erin Burnett onOutfront.“Secondarily, I’m just not going to do that.”We’ll see.Twitter exploded over the Space Force Nazi squad.“Roger Stone found a way to simultaneously endorse Space Force and Nazis……What a stupid time to be alive.”Roger Stone found a way to simultaneously endorse Space Force and Nazis.What a stupid time to be alive. pic.twitter.com/yEORmfe9WB— Miranda Yaver (@mirandayaver) August 14, 2018“Just when you thought Stone couldn’t be more unhinged…”Just when you thought Roger Stone couldn't get any more unhinged he tweets a Space Force picture of himself and Donald Trump under a Nazi Swastika #MAGA #DonaldTrump #SpceForce pic.twitter.com/DJxqa3UsNu— Left Side Of History (@LeftSideKrew) August 14, 2018Are all right-wingers Nazis now? (No, of course not, but this doesn’t help).This is real.  Roger Stone posted a "fun" Space Force graphic complete with swastika.  So tell me, right wingers, when are we allowed to call you Nazis?  Is it when your figureheads start embracing literal swastikas? https://t.co/kM3vGU5Rth— Matt Miner (@MattMinerXVX) August 14, 2018Liberals bad, swastikas NBD.Mr Stone does several things in his Instagram post:1. He supports Space Force2. He supports those pictured.3. He notes that the only liars are liberals. 4. He doesn't criticize the placement of a swastika in the picture. Helluva thing to overlook there, Roger. pic.twitter.com/xDv6UftleC— AltSpaceForce  (@AltSpaceForce1) August 14, 2018Roger Stone: Space Nazi.Because nothing is too campy forRogerStone …TrumpianNihilismSpaceNaziSpaceForcehttps://t.co/kvVbJxmzfphttps://t.co/ah5OWN3hqZ https://t.co/nCMaCzWCat— Janusian Thinking (@LeniDiamond) August 14, 2018Let’s do more!	Liberal
On Monday, President Donald Trump signed the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 at Fort Drum Army Base in New York and during his remarks he thanked a long list of people. But it is not who Trump mentioned, but rather who he deliberately did not that CNN anchor Jake Tapper took issue with.The one person not thanked or even mentioned at all during Trump’s lengthy remarks? John S. McCain.The name of ailing Republican United States Senator McCain of Arizona, chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the man that committee chose to designate the bill in honor of failed to make the President’s speech.No mention of John McCain by any of the speakers at Trump event to sign act named in honor of McCain. Trump omitted McCain from the title, calling it the national defense authorization act. pic.twitter.com/8gJisvhgkU— Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) August 13, 2018In fact, despite the official title of the bill, Trump deliberately avoided saying the name of the 23 year1958-1981and highly decoratedU.S. Navy combat veteran and former prisoner of war for whom the bill is named.The President instead only referred to the bill as the “National Defense Authorization Act” or the NDAA. And people are calling Trump out for what they view as petty childish behavior targeting a 36 year1982 to 2018Republican Congressman all because McCain criticized Trump.President Trump studiously avoided reading the official name of the legislation  which would have meant mentioning John McCain  during the 28-minute speech or during the signing ceremony afterward https://t.co/9msEIpzCrH— The New York Times (@nytimes) August 14, 2018Even when the President tweeted about the event and bill later, he left out Mccain’s name.It was my great honor to sign our new Defense Bill into law and to pay tribute to the greatest soldiers in the history of the world: THE U.S. ARMY. The National Defense Authorization Act is the most significant investment in our Military and our warfighters in modern history! pic.twitter.com/M6VI1c0Sgx— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018CNN’s Jake Tapper took to the airwaves Monday night and after showing footage of “a laundry list of people” the President thanked, Tapper rebuked Trump’s choice to go out of his way to not mention McCain even once.Watch the video here:“That was President Trump just a few minutes ago thanking a laundry list of people before officially signing the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act,” Tapper stated. “One person who wasn’t on that list of people that he thanked?”Outspoken Trump critic and the namesake of the bill, Senator John McCain. You know, the decorated war hero, who was a prisoner of war, continues to serve as a United States senator, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The bill the president signed is called the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act. No mention of him by the president today.”“Today, McCain took the high road,” Tapper shared, “and issued a statement saying, ‘I’m humbled that my colleagues in Congress chose to designate this bill in my name. Serving as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and working on behalf of America’s brave service members has been one of the greatest honors of my life’.”And since President Trump would not do it, let us here on THE LEAD congratulate Senator John McCain and his family and thank him for his service to the country.”After Tapper posted his thanks to Twitter, the Senator’s daughter Meghan McCain thanked him for thinking of her father.Thank you Jake Meghan McCain (@MeghanMcCain) August 13, 2018And John McCain’s daughter nor Jake Tapper were alone in their reactions as shown in the following Twitter responses.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s biggest fear is the political fallout from the growing scandals involving his former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, and his former campaign chair, Paul Manafort, The Root‘s politics editor Jason Johnson claimed on Monday.Johnson explained in an exchange with MSNBC’s Nicolle Wallace that Cohen and Manafort are the “beginning of Trump being exposed.”Johnson and Wallace were discussing a report from Politico which described the president’s darkening mood as Manafort’s trial comes to a close.From Politico:Trumps mood has darkened during periods when the Russia story has dominated, according to close confidants. Every day you wake up and its Manafort this, Manafort that. Its crazy, said one close adviser. How do you get away from it?Wallace suggested Trump could “get away from” worrying about Manafort, who is on trial for a slew of financial crimes, by next time not hiring a campaign manager “who offers to work for free and has a dirty book of business.”Manafort ran Trump’s presidential campaign for five months in 2016 for free, and Trump has said that he didn’t know Manafort all that well. The two have allegedly known each other for thirty years and even lived in the same building."A lot of this anger… it's the Manafort trial. There have been some small fish that Mueller has been able to grab, some people he's gotten to flip but Cohen and Manfort are the beginning of Trump being exposed…" – @DrJasonJohnson w/ @NicolleDWallace pic.twitter.com/xzEyHQtrPG— Deadline White House (@DeadlineWH) August 13, 2018Johnson concurred with Wallace, adding that Manafort and Cohen represent a substantial portion of Trump’s stress and anger.“A lot of it is Manafort,” said Johnson. “There have been some small fish [special counsel Robert] Mueller has been able to grab and flip. Cohen and Manafort are the beginning of Trump being exposed. He cant hide from these men because they worked with him very closely.”Trump’s TV lawyer Rudy Giuliani appeared to confirm this to Politico, telling the publication: The only thing he [Trump] keeps reiterating is he thinks Manafort has been treated in an unfair way for a guy whos alleged to have committed a white-collar crime.”Cohen, whose home and office were raided by the FBI in April, has admitted to making secret recordings of his meetings with Trump throughout their working relationship.Johnson said that Trump’s fear of those tapes, or other evidence being released, are“where a lot of this anger comes from.” No criminal charges have been filed against Cohen, however.	Liberal
Former United States Attorney Michael Moore took to Fox News on Monday, criticizing Former New York City Mayor and current head lawyer of President Donald Trump, Rudy Giuliani.Moores rebuke comes as Trumps and his counsel escalate attacks on Special Counsel Robert Muellers investigation into possible conspiracy between the Russian government and the Trump presidential campaign.Moore said that Mueller may take some hits in the court of public opinion due to his silence (per Justice Department protocol) against Trump’s accusations, but that ultimately, the Trump administration would most likely lose all together.Weve heard from the presidents tweets about the 13 angry Democrats, weve heard about Mueller remember that at the end of the day, a number of federal judges and a number of individual citizens who are grand jurors have determined that there was meddling in the election and that Russia was hacking. Indictments have been issued. There have been indictments against in the administration and the campaign. Thats a problem. All they can do is play the court of public opinion because theyre losing in all the courts of law.As a result, Trump appears to be getting more desperate in his attempts to discredit the investigation through Twitter. Last month, he unleashed 35 tweets berating the Special Counsel and the FBI.This morning, he unleashed another set of tweets, this time targeted at the recently fired FBI agent Peter Strzok for his anti-Trump sentiments, despite the disciplinary wing of the FBI only recommending a 60 day suspension followed by a demotion. Strzok’s anti-Trump messages have been a common talking point for Trump and his counsel in an attempt to show that the investigation operates on a bias against him.Fired FBI Agent Peter Strzok is a fraud, as is the rigged investigation he started. There was no Collusion or Obstruction with Russia, and everybody, including the Democrats, know it. The only Collusion and Obstruction was by Crooked Hillary, the Democrats and the DNC!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2018Strzok started the illegal Rigged Witch Hunt – why isnt this so-called probe ended immediately? Why arent these angry and conflicted Democrats instead looking at Crooked Hillary?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2018He also decried Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who recused himself from the Russia probe(much to Trump’s chagrin) after undisclosed contacts with the Russian ambassador were brought to light.They were all in on it, clear Hillary Clinton and FRAME Donald Trump for things he didnt do. Gregg Jarrett on @foxandfriends  If we had a real Attorney General, this Witch Hunt would never have been started! Looking at the wrong people.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 14, 2018Rudy Giuliani is proving to be almost as detrimental to Trump as Trump himself.	Liberal
President Donald Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019 on Monday, authorizing $716 billion to be spent on national defense and the military.Restoring our national security is a core piece of President @realDonaldTrump's agenda to reinvigorate America. Today, that promise is being kept as he signs the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019.Read more in 1600 Daily: https://t.co/A68ueVTJ02— The White House (@WhiteHouse) August 13, 2018In a statement, the White House said the NDAA represents Trump’s commitment to protecting the United States via Trump’s policy of “peace through strength.”The NDAA enhances the Presidents ability to help protect the Nationby authorizing $716 billion in funding for defense and military activities. This unprecedented support will help to deter our adversaries and maintain the Trump Administrations policy of peace through strength. The NDAA also fulfills the Presidents request to give our troops a much-deserved pay raise.The White House also said the NDAA “strengthens support for our allies.”The NDAA also strengthens our supportfor allies. In reinforcing our bond with Israel, it authorizes the co-development and co-production of missile defense systems. The NDAA also bolsters our support for European allies against Russian aggression by funding the European Deterrence Initiative.This year’s NDAA contains a $16 billion dollar increase from 2018 and reallocates resources from the war on terror to the growing tensions between the United States, Russia, and China.It's very interesting, everyone should know what's in it…Defense Budget Shifts Military's Focus From Terrorism To China And Russia : NPR https://t.co/lPkRoyKRe7— Forever Logical  (@ForeverLogical) August 13, 2018It also calls for adding an additional15,600 troops and 13 new navy ships – all of which were requested by the Pentagon.The NDAA was approved by both houses of Congress earlier this month. Three Democratic Senators who are considered presidential contenders in 2020 – Kirsten Gillibrand (NY), Elizabeth Warren (MA), and Kamala Harris (CA) – opposed the legislation.The bill was authored by Senator John McCain (R-AZ), whom Trump has habitually chastized.Some on Twitter mocked the White House’s tweet as “propaganda,” mainly because the NDAA has been reauthorized every year since its inception in 1961.You are pathetic, patting Trump on the back for signing a bill that passed every year.  It is a normal bill to approve spending already in the budget.  Pathetic that this propaganda account has to stroke trump's ego and make believe to his base that he is busy.#TrumpColluded— Dave Finnerty (@dfinn) August 13, 2018Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaaaaaaaaahaaaaaaaaaaahaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa…Oh wait, you're serious?— bubble"s mom (@njboundcarrie) August 13, 2018But Trump’s claims of concern for national security are weakened by his actions and rhetoric, particularly about Russia and its President, Vladimir Putin, whom Trump regularly defends.The current biggest danger to our national security is our #CriminalPOTUS along with his #CorruptAdministration.— Asa DeMatteo, Ph.D. (@AsaDeMatteo) August 13, 2018Specifically, Trump continues to deride the investigation into the Russian attack on the 2016 presidential election. Since January 2016, Trump has called the probe a “witch hunt” on Twitter 110 times.You cant even defend the situation room from a recording iPhone— Brian Dobrzynski (@BrianMitchelD) August 13, 2018Last month, Trump sided with Putin during their private summit in Helsinki, after the Russian leader denied having any involvement with the 2016 election hacks which many, including the American intelligence community, have concluded helped propel Trump to victory over Hillary Clinton.They said they think its Russia; I have President Putin, he just said its notRussia, Trump told reporters as he stood just six feet from Putin. I will say this: I dont see any reason why it would be. I have great confidence in my intelligence people, but I will tell you that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today. pic.twitter.com/JdrePQkp0G— cyndem (@livebluer) August 13, 2018During the summit, Trump also blamed the United States for growing political adversity with Russia.	Liberal
Monday has been a busy day for President Donald Trump–at least on Twitter.In addition to blasting former aide Omarosa Manigault Newman and FBI agent Peter Strzok on the social media account, he also set his sights on former GOP presidential candidate and current governor of Ohio John Kasich. Kasich, however, was prepared to clap back.The very unpopular Governor of Ohio (and failed presidential candidate) @JohnKasich hurt Troy Baldersons recent win by tamping down enthusiasm for an otherwise great candidate. Even Kasichs Lt. Governor lost Gov. race because of his unpopularity. Credit to Troy on the BIG WIN!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018The president was referring to Ohio’s recent special election for the 12th District’s house seat. Donald Trump originally won the district by 11 points in 2016 and Pat Tiberi, the district’s most recent representative and a Republican, last won it by 37 points. By all accounts, Democrat Danny O’Connor shouldn’t have ever come close to besting Republican Candidate Troy Balderson. Nonetheless, the district remained too close to call for days until Balderson ultimately won by a margin much slimmer than expected. Many took the proximity of the two candidates’ votes as a sign of an impending blue wave in response to constituents dissatisfied with Republican leadership.Kasich, who endorsed Balderson despite the president’s claims that Kasich tamped down enthusiasm, met Trump’s accusations with a savage reply. pic.twitter.com/wqtmN9SwhT— John Kasich (@JohnKasich) August 13, 2018As of last month, Kasich’s approval rating stands at 48 percent. While certainly not the highest approval rating among United States governors, it’s still higher than Donald Trump’s national score of 41.8 percent.Kasich’s response was lauded across Twitter.I honestly never thought I would witness Kasich thrashing trump on twitter.  well done.— District Flamingo (@ccuspis) August 13, 2018 pic.twitter.com/c2vroCLQLj— #GunControlNow #IStandWithFBI #PuertoRicoRelief (@Milvio_Diaz) August 13, 2018Listen up PuppetMan, Im no fan of Kasich but it was HIS support of Balderson that boosted his numbers (one reason this conservative is no fan) You held a rally when Balderson was up by 1%  & looks like he will win by LESS than 1%.  So, your support aint worth diddly doo.— MiaMarie (@WahcaMia) August 13, 2018John, I'm an Ohioan who voted Democrat 95% of the time, and the last election wasn't any different.But that trolling got you a follower.  You were the only Repub who had a clue.— Dune Finkleberry (@awn263) August 13, 2018It’s easy to see why the reply is a total burn.	Liberal
White House senior adviser on policy Stephen Millerarchitect of the zero tolerance immigration policy that led to over 3,000 children being separated from their parentscan add hypocrisy to his many talents according to Dr. David Glosser. Strong words of rebuke from Glosser, but he should know Miller well since Glosser is his uncle.Dr. David S. Glosserretired neuropsychologistspent time as a member of the Neurology faculties of Boston University School of Medicine and Jefferson Medical College. Dr. Glosser also has a sister, Miriam Glosser Miller.Miriam’s son Stephen Miller receives credit for most of the anti-immigrant and white supremacist leaning policies and statements coming out of the Trump White House. Dr. Glosser finds this to be the height of hypocrisy considering the Glosser family’s own refugee and chain migration history.In a piece for Politico Magazine, Glosser shares that story and why his nephew’s actions disappoint him.“Let me tell you a story about Stephen Miller and chain migration,” Glosser introduces. “It begins at the turn of the 20th century in a dirt-floor shack in the village of Antopol, a shtetl of subsistence farmers in what is now Belarus.”Beset by violent anti-Jewish pogroms and forced childhood conscription in the Czars army, the patriarch of the shack, Wolf-Leib Glosser, fled a village where his forebears had lived for centuries and took his chances in America.”The obvious parallels between Stephen Miller’s family story from the early 1900s and tales of refugees fleeing from violence and oppression in many forms in 2018 are undeniable.“[Wolf-Leib Glosser] set foot on Ellis Island on January 7, 1903, with $8 to his name,” Glosser continues. “Though fluent in Polish, Russian, and Yiddish he understood no English.” Merit based immigration, touted by Miller and the Trump administration discourages allowing the poor or those who do not speak English fluently to enter the U.S. and apply for citizenship or refugee status.Luckily for both Wolf-Leib Glosser and 16-year-old Friedrich Trumpwho in 1885also spoke no English and arrived with the clothes on his backtheir descendentsPresident Donald Trump and Stephen Millerdid not determine their fates.“Trump and my nephew both know their immigrant and refugee roots. Yet, they repeat the insults and false accusations of earlier generations against these refugees to make them seem less than human.” https://t.co/9zkng0KfyK POLITICO Magazine (@POLITICOMag) August 13, 2018Friedrich Trump also easily re-entered the United States in 1905.In 1904, the President’s grandfather returned to Germany to make his home there. But Friedrich and his pregnant wife were unwelcome in Germany since Friedrich’s emigration in 1885 helped him avoid mandatory German military service.So, Trump’s grandfather was also a draft dodger! Yekoz (@Yekoz) August 13, 2018Despite being branded a criminal by his homeland, Friedrich faced no obstacles returning to the United States. But the Trump administration’s version of merit based immigration discourages anyone branded a criminal by their home country from entering the United States, regardless of the reason.Another target of the Trump administration’s Miller devised immigration policies is what they refer to as chain migrationa process allowing U.S. citizens or permanent residents to sponsor family members and giving them a method to become citizens. But, again, both the Glosser and Trump families benefited from just that form of entry to the United States.How exactly?	Liberal
FBI Agent Peter Strzok, the 22-year veteran intelligence officer who has been in the spotlight for having sent inflammatory text messages about President Donald Trump during the 2016 election, was fired from the agency on Friday.Strzok's lawyer said FBI Deputy Director David L. Bowdich ordered the firing on Friday  even though the director of the FBI office that normally handles employee discipline had decided Strzok should face only a demotion and 60-day suspension https://t.co/GYsd1LjZSb— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) August 13, 2018Strzok is the third high-ranking FBI official involved with the Russia probe and the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email to be fired since Trump took office.Strzok’s attorney Aitan Goelman said the FBI made the decision to terminate his client on Friday even though the office investigating the matter had recommended a 60-day suspension and a demotion.“The decision to fire Special Agent Strzok is not only a departure from typical Bureau practice, but also contradictsFBI Director Christopher Wray’s testimony to Congress and his assurances that the FBI intended to follow its regular process in this and all personnel matters,” Goelman said in a statement.Goelman added that Strzok’s firing was a violation of typical FBI disciplinary protocol.“This isnt the normal process in any way more than name,”Goelman said.“This decision should be deeply troubling to all Americans.”Strzok was removed from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s possible ties to Russia after it was revealed he exchanged text messages with FBI lawyer Lisa Page, with whom Strzok was having an affair.Page: Trump is “not ever going to become president, right? Right?!”Strzok: “No. No he’s not. We’ll stop it.”Strzok told Congress last month that the texts were “off the cuff” and in no way indicated bias in the FBI’s probe and that he was confident that the American people would reject Trump’s ballistic behavior as a presidential candidate.Strzok apologized for sending the texts as part of his testimony before Congress.“At no time in any of these texts did those personal beliefs ever enter into the realm of any action I took,” Strzok said. “The suggestion that I’m in some dark chamber somewhere in the FBI would somehow cast aside all of these procedures, all of these safeguards, and somehow be able to do this is astounding to me — it simply couldn’t happen.”The Investigator General at the Department of Justice’s June report said Strzok’s texts“cast a cloud” over the FBI’s role in the investigation, however, the IG stopped short of saying there was any anti-Trump bias within the investigation itself.This hasn’t stopped Trump and his lawyers from citing Strzok’s texts as evidence that Mueller’s investigation is a “rigged witch hunt” and a“hoax.”Following the news of Strzok’s termination from the FBI, Trump took to Twitter to excoriate Strzok and attack Mueller’s probe.	Liberal
Another attempt to dismantle Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible conspiracy between the Russian government and the campaign of President Donald Trump has been thwarted–this time by a Trump-appointed judge. Federal District JudgeDabney Friedrich ruled againstConcord Management and Consulting, a Russian company under scrutiny for alleged efforts to sway American votes through deceptive social media platforms.Concord Management and Consulting attempted to argue that the Special Counsel’s case did not have standing in court because Robert Mueller was not appointed by the president or confirmed by a legislative body.Friedrich wrote in his decision:The appointment does not violate core separation-of-powers principles. Nor has the Special Counsel exceeded his authority under the appointment order by investigating and prosecuting Concord.Judge Friedrich’s ruling cited three judges close to other cases related to the Special Counsel: Judge Amy Berman Jackson (presiding overPaul Manafort’s foreign lobbying case in D.C.), T.S. Ellis (presiding over Manafort’s tax fraud case in Virginia) and DC District Court Chief Judge Beryl Howell, who squashed an attempt by a former aide of Roger Stone to refuse a subpoena.The ruling bolsters the legitimacy of the Special Counsel’s investigation in the face of numerous attempts to discredit it.Many Americans on Twitter are rejoicing.Back in May, I wrote about how these arguments were part of a "confusing and confused new attack" on #Mueller:https://t.co/gD1qIU9tTGAs underscored by this morning's ruling (along with the three other rulings rejecting similar claims), this attack has, correctly, failed. https://t.co/jcbN2Zwj3u— Steve Vladeck (@steve_vladeck) August 13, 2018Yet here you are airing your #dirtylaundry    as a distraction from the court case that upheld a ruling for the #Mueller investigation. Yes you are #notpresidential but that has nothing to do with your @OMAROSA #celebrityfeud . pic.twitter.com/XockxS1rP0— Patrick Schiller (@Cubscoutii) August 13, 2018Federal District Judge Dabney Friedrich who was appointed by Twitler has upheld Robert Muellers appointment and constitutional authority in investigating the Russia probe. This is now the 4th Judge to make this ruling. — Ricky Davila (@TheRickyDavila) August 13, 2018Maybe the rule of law does matter.— John Black (@justme1951) August 13, 2018The ruling comes at a crucial time when the Trump administration and its allies are escalating the fight to close the investigation.	Liberal
At a recent Made in America event held at the White House in July, the Trump Organization and President Donald Trump received heavy criticism for a lack of any of their products being made in the United States. Now it appears the Bikers for Trump organization suffers from the same issue.Chris Cox, founder of the pro-Trump group confirmed the shirts his group wears get made in Haiti, not in the United States. A fact which belies the America First slogan.But it is not the Bikers for Trump organization’s fault. According to Cox, t-shirt makers in the United States simply engage in price gouging.If I get a T-shirt made in the USA, its going to cost about $8 more. I looked far and wide to try to get a shirt made in America, its just they get you, they gouge you.”His statements bear additional irony since Cox leads the charge for Trump supporting bikers to boycott Harley-Davidson.STURGIS, S.D. The founder of Bikers for Trump is mobilizing opposition to Harley-Davidson for making bikes abroad. But he’s selling Trump T-shirts made in Haiti, because American shirts are too expensive. https://t.co/hbIMyeSxCS pic.twitter.com/WKbJ9rqdwh Alan Rappeport (@arappeport) August 11, 2018The United States motorcycle manufacturer also claimedthanks to the President’s trade war with Mexico, China, Canada and the European Unionproducing their bikes bound for their large market in Europe too expensive in the U.S. after retaliatory EU tariffs were levied. And after Trump’s withdrawal from the TPP, Harley-Davidson decided to move manufacturing for that market to Thailand.Cox and Bikers for Trumpand the President himself based on threatening Twitter posts aimed at the motorcycle manufacturertake exception with Harley-Davidson moving manufacturing for overseas markets to overseas locations.A Harley-Davidson should never be built in another country-never! Their employees and customers are already very angry at them. If they move, watch, it will be the beginning of the end – they surrendered, they quit! The Aura will be gone and they will be taxed like never before! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 26, 2018Harley-Davidson should stay 100% in America, with the people that got you your success. Ive done so much for you, and then this. Other companies are coming back where they belong! We wont forget, and neither will your customers or your now very HAPPY competitors! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2018But neither find issue with their products intended for U.S. markets being made outside the United States.But why are products much cheaper when made in the Trump Organization’s favorite locations, China and Mexico, and Bikers for Trump’s preferred location, Haiti? Is it because of United States clothing manufacturers price gouging?Not hardly.So what is the real reason?	Liberal
As if her upcoming memoir,Unhinged, didn’t shake things up in Washington enough last week, Omarosa Manigault Newman alarmed allies and critics alike when she played secret tapes recorded by her during her time as a White House aide.It’s a stunning reversal from one of President Donald Trump’s foremost allies for over a decade. To the shock of many, at least one of the recordingswhich appears to show Chief of Staff John Kelly firing herwas made in the Situation Room and could represent a huge breach of security.JOHN KELLY to OMAROSA as he fired her: "The staff and everyone on the staff works for me and not the president." pic.twitter.com/lCZM4Qihqw— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) August 13, 2018LISTEN: President Trump tells Omarosa after her firing that Chief of Staff John Kelly "runs a big operation.""Nobody even told me about it," Trump said. "You know, they run a big operation, but I didn't know that. Goddamn it!" pic.twitter.com/W2dTYFxiru— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) August 13, 2018The tapes appear to prove that Chief of Staff John Kelly fired hercontrary to the White House’s initial statement on the matterand what’s more, appear to show that Donald Trump was not made aware of the decision, with Kelly asserting that “the staff and everyone on the staff works for me, not the President.”Now, Donald Trump is leaping to discredit Manigault Newman on Twitter, continuing his common attack of referring to black people as unintelligent.Wacky Omarosa, who got fired 3 times on the Apprentice, now got fired for the last time. She never made it, never will. She begged me for a job, tears in her eyes, I said Ok. People in the White House hated her. She was vicious, but not smart. I would rarely see her but heard….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018…really bad things. Nasty to people & would constantly miss meetings & work. When Gen. Kelly came on board he told me she was a loser & nothing but problems. I told him to try working it out, if possible, because she only said GREAT things about me – until she got fired!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018While I know its not presidential to take on a lowlife like Omarosa, and while I would rather not be doing so, this is a modern day form of communication and I know the Fake News Media will be working overtime to make even Wacky Omarosa look legitimate as possible. Sorry!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 13, 2018Manigault Newman claims that her tapes are by far not as damning to the president as others in existence. The former Trump ally and season one contestant ofThe Apprenticeclaims to have heard recordings of Donald Trump repeatedly using the N-word.The fact that the tapes of her conversations with Kelly were recorded in the first place is, to many, more distressing than their actual content.let her sell her books on The View However, when she has tapes from the Situation Room, that is news because it reflects the abject incompetence and sloppiness in the administration, both of which endanger the country https://t.co/N4ekljqj2g— Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) August 12, 2018Omarosas security breech is probably a daily occurrence under this Admin. I, for one, am pretty sure Jared-without-a-TS clearance is reading classified he shouldnt.— Nada Bakos (@nadabakos) August 12, 2018I find the Omarosa stuff way more scary than funny. The White House is one giant national security breach.— andy lassner (@andylassner) August 12, 2018Some are attributing the breach to Manigault Newman’s disregard for protocol:Doesnt Omarosas flouting of security protocols at the White House sort of explain why shes no longer in the White House?— Josh Campbell (@joshscampbell) August 12, 2018Without question, @OMAROSA should be pursued to the full extent of the law for her flagrant violation of White House security protocol. This is a NON-PARTISAN issue.#LOCKHERUP— Candace Owens (@RealCandaceO) August 12, 2018She should be arrested for recording conversations in the White House.  How troubling.— Dannak (@kornegay_danna) August 13, 2018Some feel the sloppiness of the White House shares more of the blame.Set aside that Omarosa recorded a conversation in the Sit Room. Why was she there in the first place? Why did John Kelly, who has a large, private office, feel that was the best place to fire her? This is bigger than Omarosa. Its a culture of disregard for our natl security. https://t.co/tpOTWqM2ag— Ned Price (@nedprice) August 12, 2018Omarosa was able to stride into the White House with a tape recorder like Sami Brady from Days of Our Lives and not a single piece of security caught her lmao were all dead— Ira (@ira) August 12, 2018Omarosas security breech is probably a daily occurrence under this Admin. I, for one, am pretty sure Jared-without-a-TS clearance is reading classified he shouldnt.— Nada Bakos (@nadabakos) August 12, 2018The departure of Manigault Newman from Trump’s White House in December 2017 was among the more notable in an administration fraught with unprecedented staff turnover rates. Her tapes are already contradicting narratives in a story that was constantly updated in the weeks after it happened.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s TV lawyer Rudy Giuliani told CNN’s Jake Tapper that Trump never discussed Michael Flynn with James Comey, despite previously acknowledging that it had, in fact, happened.President Donald Trump's attorney @RudyGiuliani discusses the ongoing Russia investigations and the possibility of Special Counsel Robert Mueller interviewing Trump on #CNNSOTU with @jaketapper.https://t.co/XCYKpSWMAH— State of the Union (@CNNSotu) August 12, 2018Giuliani said Trump never pressed Comey to “let Flynn go,” which contradicts not only sworn statements by Comey, but Giuliani’s own version of events.“There was no conversation about Michael Flynn,” Giuliani said on Sunday’s State of theUnion. “The President didn’t find out that Comey believed there was until about, I think, it was February when it supposedly took place. Memo came out in May. And in between, Comey testified under oath, in no way had he been obstructed at any time.”Comey testified to the Senate last year that Trump had asked him to “see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.”Comey was investigating whether Flynn, who briefly served as National Security Advisor, had lied to federal officials about contacts he had with Russian nationals during the 2016 presidential campaign.Trump fired Comey in May of 2017 because he felt “this Russia thing” was a hoax, something the president maintains to this day. Comey’s firing prompted the Justice Department to appoint a special counsel, Robert Mueller, to investigate alleged ties between Russia and the Trump campaign and whether Trump obstructed justice by insisting Comey ease up on Flynn.Mueller has been seeking an interview with Trump, which Giuliani has called a “perjury trap.”“They can say it’s perjury if they elect to believe Comey instead of Trump,” the former New York City mayor said. Negotiations over the terms of a Mueller-Trump interview have been ongoing.Translation: I can't stop Trump from perjuring himself…— Yankeesfan66 (@rangersfan1966) August 12, 2018Giuliani insisted it was Comey’s version of events that had changed, and that the president would testify he never attempted to get Comey to back off of Flynn.Giuliani maintained that even if Trump had tried to get Comey to go easy on Flynn, it wouldn’t have amounted to obstruction of justice anyway.“Then all of the sudden in May he says he felt obstructed,” Giuliani added. “He felt pressured by that comment, ‘you should go easy on Flynn.’ So we maintain the President didn’t say that.”But Tapper had the receipts of Giuliani acknowledging what Trump said to Comey regarding Michael Flynn.“You told ABC News last month that the president told Comey, ‘Can you give him a break?'” Tapper said to Giuliani.“I never told ABC that,” Giuliani said. “Thats crazy. Never said that. I said that is what Comey is saying Trump said. I have always said the president denies it.”Tapper then played a July 8 clip fromThe Week in which Giuliani told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos Trump asked Comey to “give him [Flynn] a break.”On July 30, Giulaini told Fox News Trump had asked Comey to “exercise his prosecutorial discretion” in his investigation into Flynn’s ties to Russia.	Liberal
As Speaker of the House, Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) is often quick to defend his party’s policies.On Friday, he took to Twitter to praise Republican economic policies. It didn’t go quite as planned.Ryan tweeted:By measure after measure, the American economy is #BetterOffNow: Worker pay is rising at its highest rate in 10 years Record high #SmallBiz optimism Unemployment is near record low Money continues to come back from overseashttps://t.co/QL6iBLxF3m— Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) August 10, 2018Possibly to deflect from a growing sea of social atrocities like family separation and Russian appeasement, Republicans frequently tout the so-called economic improvements happening under their leadership, championing the falling unemployment rate (a trend which began with President Barack Obama) and claiming, as Ryan did, that worker pay is rising. Their claims, however, tend to be misleading.It wasn’t long before people on social media corrected Ryan.They pointed out that, adjusted for inflation, wages are actually plateauing.1. Inflation is rising at a level that wage gains r virtually zero.2. Optimism does not pay bills3. Employers having tougher time finding qualified workers.4. $ coming back substantially being used for share buybacks— Dave Agar (@Dave1Agar) August 10, 2018U.S. workers' paychecks are worth less than they were a year ago, the  Labor Department reported Friday, as modest wage gains have failed to  keep pace with inflation.— John Brase (@JohnJbrase) August 10, 2018#NotBetterOffNow Teachers work hard their pay is not rising! In fact most teachers salaries are frozen fix that! #Schoolsarenotsafe #NoGunReform #Noaffordablehealthcare— Kay Dotson (@KayDotson6) August 10, 2018What’s more, they came with receipts.According to White House tweet, the economy and job market has been surging for the last 94 months.  Since Trump has only been in the White House for 18 of those months, perhaps you should thank Obama.  https://t.co/otpXiQ2xCk— Unstoppable (@iamtgestorm) August 10, 2018Your lying is nowhere near Trumpian levels but you are consistent. pic.twitter.com/ep002KeolN— Jim Tilia (@DelawareBadger) August 10, 2018What a surprise – wages are rising the most for top earners while the middle class remains flat. pic.twitter.com/4wuwQ37HZW— Catherine Boerner (@catboerner) August 10, 2018#Liar pic.twitter.com/XVo7JP1qkR— mary carlson (@proudmaryc) August 10, 2018And, for many, modest economic growth did nothing to negate other Republican policies.However, our democracy is in the most danger since the Depression.  Massive tax cuts for the rich give the illusion of a roaring economy, but y'all have fiddled while Trump burns down the country! #GOPBoughtandPaidFor— StratFan57 (@stratfan57) August 10, 2018Sir, if we are to believe you thats good news. Actually The difference between our economy now and three years ago is very little. The difference between our moral stand is enormous. We have never encountered the political stance that you support. I am afraid and embarrassed.— Paul Adams (@ppaul3) August 7, 2018By measure after measure, the American economy is #GOPsOnlyTalkingPoint: The oceans are rising at their highest rate in history Record high #NeoNazi optimism Morale is near record low Money continues to illegally enrich our President— Hugh Hoffner (@HoffToTheTouch) August 10, 2018Republicans have undoubtedly taken steps on economic issues, but the direction in which those steps are taking the country remains debatable.	Liberal
In a since deleted Instagram post made Wednesday night, Donald Trump, Jr. shared a poorly photoshopped image of a CNN Gallup poll graphic. The poorly altered image showed his father finally reaching a 50 percent approval rating.In his caption, the younger Trump stated:Amazing. I guess there is a magic wand to make things happen and @realdonaldtrump seems to have it. #maga #americafirst”The doctored image intended to show his fathers approval rating at 50 percent versus President Barack Obama’s 45 percent approval rating. Only the 50 percent for Trump failed to pass even brief examination.@DonaldJTrumpJr lies as much as his Dad. This week, he posted an image with fake Trump poll/economic #’s compared to Obama. Never mind that Obama inherited the 2nd biggest recession in US history and built the great economy Trump inherited. #TrumpLieshttps://t.co/KiFUClRrMH pic.twitter.com/FIUYwYw3Ff John Williams (@ashlandJohn) August 10, 2018Whoever altered the original CNN screen grab left the “50%” misaligned with the text on the original graphic. Also, the background shade of red was drastically different.So wait, let me get this straight. Polls are fake until they show positive numbers for Trump, then they are great. If they don’t show positive numbers, then you can fake the numbers (on the already fake poll) in order for them to be great again. Got it. Brandon Bilinski (@bilinski) August 10, 2018After zooming in, people also clearly saw the original “40%” was still visible under the fake number. It didn’t take long for the internet to pick up on the error of Trump Jr.’s ways.Junior just posted a photoshopped photo of his dad’s approval ratings & artificially inflated Trump’s rating so that it’s higher than Obama’s ?? pic.twitter.com/eERSNsQJop William LeGate (@williamlegate) August 8, 2018Here’s the original: pic.twitter.com/jNxLVcJrRU Sally Rutter (@SallyRutter) August 9, 2018Trump campaign forced to use badly made Photoshop images to spread their lies.https://t.co/tUOb0Y2QDG Patrick White (@mrreactionary) August 10, 2018why is @DonaldJTrumpJr posting fake, photoshopped CNN graphics on @instagram ? the 40% approval rating for Trump was changed to 50% in the graphic. however, Trump has never been at 50% in the @GallupNews poll, which is what was cited. Snoif (@BellWitchOrl) August 9, 2018What depths would these people not sink to, trying to make trump look something he isn’t. As popular as @POTUS44. Don Jr Just Posted Fake Poll Numbers To Claim His Dad Is More Popular Than Obama, It Backfired Completely https://t.co/4JRfGzm5nA via @politicaldig Kathleen Ross (@KathleenRoss24) August 10, 2018@realDonaldTrump @DonaldJTrumpJr #Fakepresident s son makes up #fake poll. #LiarInChief As a father he has taught his children to lie. That’s what they have seen his whole life. If you can’t get what you want honestly lie about it get it dishonestlyhttps://t.co/mdW8vVXITR Deborah Allen Poker Lady (@DeborahAllenGe1) August 10, 2018A few went to Trump Sr. to ask about the graphic his son shared.why dont you discuss how one of your sons photo shopped a popularity poll in your favor and the stupid turd only gave you a fake 50% ?? Deep Thoughts by Jack Handey (@RobertKlinc1) August 9, 2018@realDonaldTrump I see that your “wonderful son” is as much of a GD liar as you, distributing a fake poll results graphic, doctored by some Trumpkin to give you a 50% job rating! LIARS, both of you! SmorrisonF (@SmorrisonF) August 10, 2018While some theorized on the real reason behind the fake image.Trump had the poll rigged to hang next to the fake time magazine its not the media that is fake the fake ness is trumps reflection in the mirror karen byrne (@karenfb57) August 10, 2018Some found irony in Trump Jr.’s magic wand comment since it is one of the photoshop tools used when altering images.Amazing, guess there is a magic wand to make things happen and @realDonaldTrump seems to have itYeah if that magic wand is photoshopVia @DonaldJTrumpJrs instagram pic.twitter.com/3Xz0YSttpq Alt_Dept of Labor (@alt_labor) August 10, 2018While others offered their own fake poll numbers.Just did a fake poll in my mind that I know to be true and 100% of the white hate-group members that voted in America voted for Trump and not any Democrats. JDElPresidente (@mfgconsent1) August 8, 2018Although it appears not everyone got the memo as Nevada Republican State Senate Leader and candidate for Nevada Lieutenant Governor Michael Roberson shared the clearly altered image Friday morning, well after the public called it out as fake.Ironically, he captioned the image “Facts are stubborn things.”After the public notified Roberson, rather than admit his mistake and delete the post,he claimed he was owning Libs with a badly photoshopped image.Love the apoplectic comments below. I just polled my own household and Trump is at 50%, so the graphic stays. Libs are so easily owned… https://t.co/6Me6MrRWLD Michael Roberson (@RobersonForNV) August 10, 2018Twitter user Alex Kaplan broke the whole thing down in the following series of tweets.	Liberal
Like many small cities in Japan, the city of Iga, in Mie Prefecture, is facing a serious depopulation problem. The city of 95,000 is shedding about 1,000 residents annually. Young people from Iga, like young people across the planet, are forsaking rural life in favor of city life.In order to help combat this trend, Iga Mayor Sakae Okamoto is looking to Igas past. And what sets it apart from any number of cities in similar circumstances is that Igas history is awesome. Iga claims to be the birthplace of the ninja. Its already home to one ninja museum, and the city is making moves to underscore its history. But a recent effort to promote its revitalization plan left Okamoto scrambling to set the record straight on some fake news.When this story was covered by the NPR podcast Planet Money in mid-July, it attracted a lot of attention, in part because it suggested that Igas population had declined so far that it was suffering a ninja shortage.“This job does have a lot to offer,” Planet Money co-host Sally Herships explained. “First of all, the pay is quite competitive. Today, ninjas can earn anything from $23,000 to about $85,000  which is a really solid salary, and in fact, a lot more than real ninjas used to earn in medieval Japan.In Japan, the ninja is more than a nameless, faceless karate master. A ninja (usually called shinobi in Japan) was an expert in Ninjutsu, a complex espionage system that dates back to 1180. Practitioners were skilled in unconventional warfare, traditional spy-craft, and 18 other skills, including horsemanship, pyrotechnics, and meteorology; skills taught at Igas historical ninja academy.So its no surprise that once Planet Moneys story was released, it was picked up by lots of news websites. Naturally, Iga city hall was flooded with inquiries from prospective ninja students from more than a dozen countries.But alas, Iga isnt actually seeking additional ninjas, or even ninja performers. Its focused on building a second ninja museum and building its tourism industry. With a second museum comes new jobs  both in the design and construction phases, and later in staffing the museum complex with Ninjutsu experts. And thats a challenge because not only is the citys population shrinking, but Japanese unemployment figures are very low  just 2.5% nationally.“Iga didn’t put out information about ‘a lack of ninjas in Iga’ or the ‘annual income of ninjas’, that is currently reported by some news sites on the Internet, Okamoto said in a statement. “Please be careful about fake news.NPR said that the salary information came from staff at Igas existing ninja museum, Ninja Museum of Iga-ryu. It has issued a clarification and updated its story to better reflect Igas plans.Meanwhile, Okamoto has received funding from the national government to move city hall in order to construct the second ninja museum, very close to the existing museum. City planners hope the new complex will better capitalize on Japans current tourist boom. After all, attracting more tourists means attracting more money, and more money in the local economy should draw more permanent residents to the city, creating new places and business for tourists (and locals) to enjoy. 	Liberal
As anyone whos recently strolled down the natural-foods aisle at the grocery store can attest, alternative milk is big business these days. From lactose intolerance to worries about overconsumption of calcium and an increased risk of cancer, health-conscious Americas growing aversion to cows milk has resulted in all manner of milks derived from items that have nothing to do with mammals  cashew milk, flax milk, hemp milk, quinoa milk.However, even the weirdest milk substitute on the market today has nothing on what some including even Gwyneth Paltrows Goop empire  are hailing as the next potential superfood: cockroach milk.While most cockroaches lay eggs, one particular species native to the Pacific Rim, the Pacific Beetle cockroach (Diploptera punctata), actually does give birth to live young. While it doesnt have mammary glands to dispense liquid milk, it does produce protein crystals for its babies that scientists have found contain more than triple the energy of an equivalent amount of dairy milk.“The crystals are like a complete food  they have proteins, fats and sugars. If you look into the protein sequences, they have all the essential amino acids,” Sanchari Banerjee, one of the researchers who originally discovered the crystals, told the Times of India.In addition to the voluminous protein content, the protein is also time released, which could be a boon for those struggling to gain weight and looking to add additional calories and protein to their diets. “If you need food that is calorifically high, that is time released and food that is complete. This is it, said Subramanian Ramaswamy, another member of the original research team, told the Times of India.Though the protein crystals were first discovered in 2016, no companies have stepped forward to market them just yet. The closest analog is being marketed by South African company Gourmet Grubb, called Entomilk, The Original Insect Milk. The website carefully avoids specifics, claiming pending patents, but admits the process involves factory-farmed black soldier fly larvae, which look alarmingly like large maggots.However, the resulting product not only resembles liquid dairy milk and can be used to make corresponding treats like ice cream (which the company also sells), Gourmet Grubbs website claims Entomilk is a sustainable, nature-friendly, nutritious, lactose-free, delicious, guilt-free dairy alternative of the future, as well as significantly higher in protein than regular dairy and very high in minerals such as iron, zinc and calcium.	Liberal
Omarosa Manigault-Newmanone time Trump administration White House stafferclaims her former boss, President Donald Trump used a variety of racial slurs while she worked for him at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and before then too. She also accuses Trump of misogyny.The woman best know by her mononymous monikerOmarosamade both statements in her upcoming tell-all book about her longtime professional and personal relationship with Donald Trump. The book, titled Unhinged, comes out August 14, 2018.The two originally met on the first season of The Apprentice in 2004. Since then, Trump referred to Omarosa several times as his loyal friend..@OMAROSA You were fantastic on television this weekend. Thank you so much  you are a loyal friend! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 10, 2015They teamed up again in 2008, 2010 and 2013. When Trump announced his presidential candidacy in 2015, Omarosa stumped on his behalf. She eventually took an official role in the campaign, then the transition team and then the Trump White House.But things went sour at the end of 2017. In December, the White House announced Omarosa resigned, effective January of 2018.Shortly after, Omarosa had her own announcement to make about a book deal chronicling her time working with Trump.Then in the August press tour leading up to her book release, she stated evidence of Trump’s mental decline would be revealed in her book.Omarosa claims in new book she saw evidence of Trumps “mental decline” https://t.co/UZuMq2EWG6 pic.twitter.com/WSiApgvy1l The Hill (@thehill) August 2, 2018But critics immediately discounted Omarosa as an unreliable witness.However a week later, her publisher hinted irrefutable proof of several of the more explosive revelations existed. On August 8, the story of secret legally made recordings by Omarosa, during her time at the White House, broke.Using her private cell phonea practice Trump himself maintained and encouraged among his staffOmarosa recorded meetings and conversations. Washington DClike New York where Michael Cohen taped Trumpfalls under a “one-party consent” law regarding recordings. If one party knows and consents to being recorded, the recordings are legal.guys if Omarosa was able to tape Trump then actual foreign intelligence agencies are probably controlling him like Ratatouille Victoria Aveyard (@VictoriaAveyard) August 8, 2018But additional recordings of Trump also exist.	Liberal
Yesterday, Vice President Mike Pence gave a speech to the Pentagon pushing for the creation of a Space Force, which he touted as a new, “separate but equal” branch of the United States Armed Forces.The proposal has been met with widespread skepticism and even ridicule, and former NASA astronaut Scott Kelly has been an outspoken opponent of the idea.Scott Kelly on Space Force: "We currently have a great capability within the U.S. military and @usairforce, and adding another layer of government bureaucracy to the tune of $8 billion initially is probably not a good use of our taxpayer dollars." #TheStory pic.twitter.com/02TETgtyfZ— Fox News (@FoxNews) August 9, 2018On Thursday, Kelly, who commanded the International Space Station, believes a Space Force is unnecessary.“We currently have a great capability within the U.S. military and @usairforce,” he said in an interview with Fox News, “and adding another layer of government bureaucracy to the tune of $8 billion initially is probably not a good use of our taxpayer dollars.”Kelly explained that the Air Force already monitors space, which it has since U.S. Space Command was reintegrated into the branch in 2002.Kelly also derided President Donald Trump for unilaterally calling for a new branch of the military, and blasted the president’s reelection campaign for selling “Space Force swag.”To me, that tells you pretty much what the reason behind this was, is that it’s political.Twitter chimed in with its thoughts on Trump’s Space Force.This is the best use of tax-payer money,  believe me.  Healthcare doesn't have spaceships. Lame!— Dogald J. Trump (@dogaldtrump) August 9, 2018Keep on buying into their fear and their lies… then all of a sudden space force sounds like a great idea.— Abel Loera (@Daegon369) August 10, 2018MAKE MEXICO PAY FOR THE SPACE WALL— Pumpkin Piez (@toofatbeef) August 9, 2018https://t.co/QlmC18oJKl— karin knauer (@KarinKnauer) August 9, 2018But somewhere out there an alien desperately needs his health care taken away.— Dan Govert (@captainklerk81) August 10, 2018@StationCDRKelly thanks for being the voice of reason.  Just finished Endurance.  Yours is much better read than Shackletons.— Sean (@JerseyguySeanFK) August 10, 2018This continued the astronaut’s remarks from last Friday, when Kelly told MSNBC’s Stephanie Ruhle and Ali Velshi said he sees the venture, as both a danger to the peaceful exploration of space and a waste of money.“It’s not clear to me what the purpose is of this new branch of the military, which is going to be incredibly expensive,” Kelly said Friday. “And my big concern here is that, you know, space has been a place for us to work in a peaceful manner. And, you know, changing that with not any clear reason at this point is, like I said, kind of hard to understand.”Kelly,a U.S. Navy veteran, added that a Space Force would add needlessbureaucracy and create redundancy in work done by other branches of the military.Any time you add more bureaucracy to an already large bureaucracy, it’s going to cost a lot of money. I think the capability we’re talking about is something that probably already exists in the U.S. military, in the Air Force, Navy, other armed services, he said. “I spent 25 years in the Navy, and 20 of it at NASA. And this is not something that we ever really heard was a serious consideration over all that time.”Kelly suggested that the president should focus on the current cyberwar with Russia, which is ongoing and presents a clear and immediate danger to our national security.“How about we deal with the war we’re currently in? The cyberwar that is, you know, trying to affect our democracy, the thing that’s most important to the United States, which is free and fair elections,” Kelly said.“We’re currently in a war right now,” he added. “We should worry about that one and worry about war in space later.”Kelly’s twin brother, astronaut Mark Kelly, also blasted Trump’s Space Force following the vice president’s speech on Thursday.	Liberal
In the interest of public safety amid the ongoing national debate over gun control, Facebook announced on Thursday that it will forbid the blueprint sharing or distribution of 3-D printed guns on its social media platform.Facebook says it's removing posts with instructions for 3D printed guns. https://t.co/PBDOr98tcN pic.twitter.com/AAxcvvBDTO— CNBC (@CNBC) August 9, 2018Facebook’s rules already prohibit sales and exchanges of guns except by licensed dealers. Facebook said in a statement:Sharing instructions on how to print firearms using 3D printers is not allowed under our Community Standards. In line with our policies, we are removing this content from Facebook.Thank you Facebook for your efforts to help block the spread of the 3D weapon files. Proud of the work that I and others in the gun violence prevention movement were able to do to as part of this process.https://t.co/YsxMcv7FAs— Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) August 10, 2018Facebook’s decision is part of a broader conversation between supporters of gun rights and advocates for public safety.Another day, another move by @facebook to keep Americans safe online. #StopDownloadableGuns https://t.co/hyFoem1qHC— Brady Campaign (@Bradybuzz) August 10, 2018Gun enthusiast Cody Wilson sought to create a “Wikileaks for guns” in 2013 by posting instructions on how to print 3-D plastic guns at home. He sued the federal government in 2015 and in a settlement was permitted to post his plans online.Wilson printed his first 3-D gun, “The Liberator,” out of ABS plastic in 2012. ABS plastic is the material used to make Legos.“I’m a radical individualist,” Wilson told CNN Money’s Laurie Segall in 2017. “I don’t like the imposition of state controls over human flourishing and creativity, freedom, individuality. And so, the way to oppose these things is to undermine the powers of traditional liberal institutions.”Wilson added that the First Amendment should protect his right to post his blueprints online for anyone to access.“I want people to know that it’s legal to publish this information online,” he said at the time. “Do public libraries perform background checks on people before they read books? That’s just not how speech and publication works.”Thrilled to see that @Facebook is banning from its platform sites that host digital blueprints to make guns on 3D printers and thankful for folks like @fred_guttenberg & @ponumurray who helped make it possible.— igorvolsky (@igorvolsky) August 10, 2018Because of this, Wilson has garnered a reputation for being “one of the most dangerous people on the Internet.”Facebook is blocking sites that provide instructions for creating 3D printed guns and deleting content related to the creation of such weapons https://t.co/9DNcDIoACp pic.twitter.com/0ffxyjhY2p— CNN (@CNN) August 10, 2018That changed in July.Last month, a federal judge ruled that a website run by Wilson had to take down its instructions on how to create 3-D printed guns.Judge Robert Lasnik sided with 19 states and the District of Columbia, who argued that because 3-D printed guns have no serial numbers and are untraceable, access to building instructions would allow individuals to skirt background checks. Plastic weapons would also be undetectable by metal detectors, plaintiffs argued.“Plaintiffs have shown a likelihood of success on the merits of their Administrative Procedure Act claim,” the judge wrote.Gun control advocates lauded Facebook and the court’s decision.3D-printed guns have no place in our communitiesand that includes our online communities. We applaud @Facebook for once again stepping up to the plate and taking meaningful steps to keep Americans safe. https://t.co/rJPUGpsN62— Shannon Watts (@shannonrwatts) August 9, 2018“If Cody Wilson is not stopped, then what we will find is a universe where the internet has plans to 3-D print any kind of weapon anybody wants,” Brady Campaign co-president Avery Gardiner toldNightline,“with printers that make that incredibly easy for someone to do in only a few hours in their garage or in their living room.”The court’s ruling, however, onlyapplies to thesharing of data online. Wilson has developed a “computer-automated milling machine,” which he sells for $2,000 and that has the capability of “carving” metal parts for firearms such as the glock and AR-15...and so should all social media. Allowing it, just supports it. Why the hell is it okay to allow this? Children use Facebook. It just adds to the ongoing violence in society.— Cora (@Cora_007) August 10, 2018This will take you a couple of hours, and it doesnt require your constant intercession, Wilson said of his in-home gun maker.These homemade “ghost guns” can be generated anywhere and by anyone willing to purchase the necessary equipment.The term ghost gun refers to guns that really appear out of nowhere,” Gardiner said. “We dont have any register of who bought them, how they were sold.”We have seen ghost guns used in shootings around America in the last several years, Gardiner said.	Liberal
President Donald Trump reignited his ire toward NFL players kneeling during the National Anthem to protest police brutality and the disenfranchisement of people of color.During preseason games on Thursday night, multiple players took a knee or raised a fist during the anthem, leading Donald Trump to seethe on Twitter.The NFL players are at it again – taking a knee when they should be standing proudly for the National Anthem. Numerous players, from different teams, wanted to show their outrage at something that most of them are unable to define. They make a fortune doing what they love……— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 10, 2018…..Be happy, be cool! A football game, that fans are paying soooo much money to watch and enjoy, is no place to protest. Most of that money goes to the players anyway. Find another way to protest. Stand proudly for your National Anthem or be Suspended Without Pay!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 10, 2018This isn’t the first time the president has called for protesting players to be suspended without pay. This past May, the NFL announced a policy mandating that players stand for the anthem or remain in the locker room. The policy was heavily criticized and has now been put on hold, but Trump insisted in an interview with Fox and Friends that the players were being let off too easy, seemingly implying that they should be deported instead.I don’t think people should be staying in locker rooms. You have to stand proudly for the national anthem or you shouldn’t be playing. You shouldn’t be there. Maybe you shouldn’t be in the country. You have to stand proudly for the national anthem.Trump’s animus toward protesting players has proven to be one of his strongest vendettas. He’s railed against players at his rallies in the past, much to the attending supporters’ delight. At one rally, he said to the crowd:Wouldnt you love to see one of theseNFLowners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! Hes fired. Hes fired!’He’s also tweeted about the protests to the point of incessance.The NFL National Anthem Debate is alive and well again – cant believe it! Isnt it in contract that players must stand at attention, hand on heart? The $40,000,000 Commissioner must now make a stand. First time kneeling, out for game. Second time kneeling, out for season/no pay!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 20, 2018We will proudly be playing the National Anthem and other wonderful music celebrating our Country today at 3 P.M., The White House, with the United States Marine Band and the United States Army Chorus. Honoring America! NFL, no escaping to Locker Rooms!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 5, 2018At least 24 players kneeling this weekend at NFL stadiums that are now having a very hard time filling up. The American public is fed up with the disrespect the NFL is paying to our Country, our Flag and our National Anthem. Weak and out of control!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 28, 2017The NFL is now thinking about a new idea – keeping teams in the Locker Room during the National Anthem next season. Thats almost as bad as kneeling! When will the highly paid Commissioner finally get tough and smart? This issue is killing your league!…..— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 22, 2017It is about time that Roger Goodell of the NFL is finally demanding that all players STAND for our great National Anthem-RESPECT OUR COUNTRY— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 11, 2017Why is the NFL getting massive tax breaks while at the same time disrespecting our Anthem, Flag and Country? Change tax law!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 10, 2017The reason for such pointed anger is unclear, but Americans are getting sick of it.	Liberal
On June 18, 2018, President Donald Trump announced his intention of creating another branch of the military that he dubbed Space Force.During a meeting of the National Space Council, the President stated:“When it comes to defending America, it is not enough to merely have an American presence in space. We must have American dominance in space. So important. Very importantly, Im hereby directing the Department of Defense and Pentagon to immediately begin the process necessary to establish a space force as the sixth branch of the armed forces. Thats a big statement.”We are going to have the Air Force and we are going to have the Space Force  separate but equal. It is going to be something. So important.”During a speech at the Pentagon on August 9, Vice President Mike Pencethe Chairman of the National Space Council expanded on the plans to establishthis Space Force.Space Force all the way! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 9, 2018The Department of Defense also issued an official statement. And shortly thereafter the Trump campaign sent an email to their Trump Pence Make America Great Again Committee donors asking them to vote on logo designs for the new military branch.Its The Trump 2020 Campaign #SpaceForce Logo Contest https://t.co/ykG5aMGoP6 According to this Trump 2020 email “We have to make a final decision on the design we will use to commemorate President Trump’s new Space Force-and he wants YOU to have a say Vote for your favorite logo” pic.twitter.com/w5flodctZL NASA Watch (@NASAWatch) August 9, 2018The message also mentions upcoming sales of a “new line of gear.”The Trump/Pence PAC is already trying to monetize the Space Force:“As a way to celebrate President Trumps huge announcement, our campaign will be selling a new line of gear.” pic.twitter.com/x9jadkNiHG eve peyser (@evepeyser) August 9, 2018But the internet being what it is, came up with some alternate designs of their own.Hey @realDonaldTrump, are you still accepting #SpaceForce logo ideas? pic.twitter.com/tvJE7xcAZw Tim Roberts (@21stCenturyTim) August 9, 2018Please vote for my Space Force logo pic.twitter.com/FHBvwvPfSe Christa Mrgan (@antichrista) August 9, 2018pic.twitter.com/frCi4HA8TY Bryan Frazier (@B_D_Frazier) August 9, 2018A few referenced another “force” from a galaxy far, far away.And some even suggested a first project for the new military branch.However some people saw a few similarities between the new logos and some existing ones. Like this image and NASA.Cute, but like… The Space Force would have literally nothing to do with Mars? Unless… I guess we could go to war with Martians, then this this logo might be relevant. pic.twitter.com/LnoiVjnqfp Miriam Kramer (@mirikramer) August 9, 2018Looks kind of familiar …… pic.twitter.com/QfMe2fxyG0 The_Ouroborus (@The_Ouroborus) August 10, 2018While some were less than kind in their suggestions.Hey @realDonaldTrump I made you a Space Force logo. You can send my payment in the post. #spaceforce pic.twitter.com/OYv3AO5A8V Tommy Rotten (@Beardyknave) August 10, 2018Heres a good logo for your Space Force. pic.twitter.com/gjdhSjmzin Mike JR (@sportaholic13) August 10, 2018Hi @realDonaldTrump I heard you are looking for logos for your new SPACE FORCE! As a professional graphic designer, I would like to offer you my logo design idea, free of charge! It’s the least I can do to give back. pic.twitter.com/oe522hVdzc Rob Sheridan (@rob_sheridan) August 9, 2018I think this is the most accurate Space Force logo pic.twitter.com/lopOJu1vm1 Chris Miller (@chrizmillr) August 10, 2018“Space Force”#MT @Stonekettle My entry for Space Force logo.Motto: A black hole you throw money into. pic.twitter.com/tbgELZ1hJ6 McSpocky™ ???? (@mcspocky) August 9, 2018Hey @darth – anyone know where I can submit my designs for the #SpaceForce logo? pic.twitter.com/6BxvV4hcbF Nick Vucic (@npv708) August 10, 2018The Space Force logo that Trump supporters want. pic.twitter.com/NW1YlEQi48 InterStateFC (@InterStateFC) August 9, 2018While some artists and organizations gave multiple options like in the following suggestions.	Liberal
Fox News host Laura Ingraham responded on Thursday to backlash caused by remarks she made about immigration on Wednesday, which prompted an endorsement of a white supremacist leader and widespread condemnation from others in the media.Fox needs to give @IngrahamAngle 2 shows. One, where she mocks teenagers whose friends died in a school shooting and parrots white supremacist talking points. And one where she assures advertisers she meant the opposite of what she said on the other show.pic.twitter.com/3I4TceJZST— Mrs. Betty Bowers (@BettyBowers) August 10, 2018“I want to start tonight by addressing my commentary at the top of last nights show,” Ingraham, host ofThe Ingraham Angle, began. What followed was less of an apology and more of an attempt at rationalization.“A message to those who are distorting my views, including all white nationalists and especially one racist freak whose name I wont even mention,” Ingraham said. KKK leader David Duke had endorsed Ingraham’s remarks on demographics on Twitter but then deleted the post.Duke referred to Ingraham’s Wednesday rant as “one of the most important (truthful) monologues in the history of MSM.”The comments Laura Ingraham made about immigrants and immigration was so racist David Duke had an orgasm. Fox News has become the network of hate and deplorableness.— Christopher Bouzy (@cbouzy) August 10, 2018“You do not have my support,” Ingraham said of Duke. “You dont represent my views and you are antithetical to the beliefs I hold dear.Ingraham tried to clarify her Wednesday comments by defending the “rule of law meaning secure borders,” which she claimed, “used to bind our country together.”CNN guest condemns Laura Ingraham as the mouthpiece of white nationalism: Not just a dog whistle https://t.co/PBbAH8riJW #p2 #ctl pic.twitter.com/Q13TZD3FsO— #Politics  (@ZaibatsuNews) August 10, 2018She continued:“Despite what some may be contending, I made it explicitly clear my commentary had nothing to do with race or ethnicity, but rather a shared goal of keeping America safe and her citizens safe and prosperous,” she said, followed by a push for “merit-based immigration.Furthermore, as I have said repeatedly on the show, merit-based immigration does wonders for our countrys economy, our way of life, and how we define our country. I even said that in my opening thoughts last night.“I want to make it really clear that my concern will continue to remain with the families who have suffered the tragic result of illegal immigration,” Ingraham concluded. “The children put in dangerous and unfair situations at the border and all those border agents around the country who work to keep our country safe.”On Wednesday, Ingraham railed against “demographic changes” that she claimed have been “foisted on the American people.” Ingraham added that “they are changes that none of us ever voted for, and most of us dont like.”Conservative commentator Amanda Carpenter fired back at Ingraham: “Laura, I want to know, who is the one who really hates America?”"Laura, I want to know, who is the one who really hates America? https://t.co/Waj7uLToXc— Raw Story (@RawStory) August 10, 2018MSNBC’s Donnie Deutsch called for an advertising boycott of Ingraham’s show over her comments.MSNBC's Donnie Deutsch calls for advertiser boycott of Fox's Laura Ingraham: Her comments are worse than the N-word https://t.co/OS5w5ozrux— Eric W. Dolan (@EWDolan) August 10, 2018He wasn’t the only one.	Liberal
In 2005, Kanye West earned a certain infamy after he criticized then-President George W. Bush’s response to Hurricane Katrina and the government’s failure to help victims of the disaster, saying,George Bush doesnt care about black people. Last night, when Jimmy Kimmel, who had West appear on his show, asked West if President Donald Trump cares about black people “or any people at all,” West, one of the president’s most high profile supporters, could only sit in silence.Here is the moment @jimmykimmel left @kanyewest speechless: https://t.co/LPRevTckM8 pic.twitter.com/vJsKhbh0Oj— The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) August 10, 2018West had, per Kimmel’s urging, been asked to explain his support for the president, and he had expressed his hope thatone by one by one we can defuse this nuclear bomb of hate that were in as a society by thinking of everyone as our family.I think thats a beautiful thought, but in literal terms there are families being torn apart at the border of this country, Kimmel said. There are literally families being torn apart as a result of what this president is doing. And I think that we cannot forget that, whether we like his personality or not, his actions are really what matter.Kimmel then brought up West’s comments about President Bush, saying,I mean, you so famously and so powerfully said, George Bush doesnt care about black people. It makes me wonder what makes you think that Donald Trump does, or any people at all?West, arms crossed, sat insilence. Reactions were not particularly kind.Sad. Famous for being famous. Get help Kanye. Clearly youre lost.— LKBland (@LisaKB7) August 10, 2018Kanye needs to be reprogrammed. pic.twitter.com/3tKSL2Frap— T.A. Limar (@LoadedCookieCo) August 10, 2018What an intelligent response… (Sarcasm)— Latrell (@Raye_100) August 10, 2018Ye needs help. Between this moment, his tombstone reference, his obvious insecurity with his body etc… I cant recognise the man who made Graduation— #January28th (@BUCKSTEEZY) August 10, 2018The interview was West’s first since he made headlines for declaring that slavery was a “choice” while defending his support for President Trump at the TMZ offices in May.Earlier during the interview, Kimmel asked West if he believes Trump “is a good president.”West responded with a monologue abouttwo main motivating factors in life: love and fear”: The way he explained it, you can still “love” someone even when they do a “bad thing.” Rationalizing his support for the president, who has been criticized for harboring racial animus toward African Americans and other minority groups, he said:Everyone around me tried to pick my candidate for me. And then told me every time I said I liked Trump that I couldnt say it out loud or my career would be over, Id get kicked out of the black community because blacks are supposed to have a monolithic thought, we can only be Democrats.He continued, adding:It took me a year and a half to have the confidence to stand up and put on the hat, no matter what the consequences were.And what it represented to me is nothing about policies, because Im not a politician like that, but it represented overcoming fear and doing what you felt, no matter what anyone said, in saying, You cant bully me. Liberals cant bully me, news cant bully me, the hip-hop community, they cant bully me. At that point, if Im afraid to be me, Im no longer Ye [the name of his new album]. Thats what makes Ye.Addressing his comments on slavery, West said:I think people focus too much on the past and focus too much on regret… [I’ve]heard of history class [but I’ve] never heard of a future class, so they keep us so focused on history that we start to believe that it actually repeats itself and we become overly traditional. And we cant advance as a race of beings.Sometimes you just have to be fearless enough to break the fucking simulation.	Liberal
Conservative commentator Ben Shapiro said that he would donate $10,000 to self-described Democratic Socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s campaign if she agreed to debate him. Then she fired back.Miss Ocasio-Cortez, Im really excited that youve been elevated to that position and I would love to have a real conversation with you about the issues. Youve noted that you think Republicans are afraid to debate you or talk to you or discuss the issues with you. Not only am I eager to discuss the issues with you, Im willing to offer $10,000 to your campaign today for you to come on ourSundayspecial,” Shapiro said on “The Ben Shapiro Show.”Shapiro initially tweeted a video in which he mocked Democratic National Committee chairperson Tom Perez for referring to Ocasio-Cortez, whose upset win over incumbent Representative Joe Crowley in New York’s 14th congressional district sent shockwaves through the Democratic Party, as the “future of the Democratic Party, before challenging her.Hey, @Ocasio2018, what do you say? pic.twitter.com/lKDtmMc8Us— Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) August 8, 2018Ocasio-Cortez did not respond right away, a point which did not escape Fox News’s coverage..@benshapiro challenges Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to debate: "I've heard nothing at this point, nor do I expect to hear anything." pic.twitter.com/RipXh7D5Ip— FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) August 9, 2018But then, later that evening, she did.“Just like catcalling, I dont owe a response to unsolicited requests from men with bad intentions,” she said of Shapiro’s request.“And also like catcalling, for some reason they feel entitled to one.”Just like catcalling, I dont owe a response to unsolicited requests from men with bad intentions.And also like catcalling, for some reason they feel entitled to one. pic.twitter.com/rsD17Oq9qe— Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@Ocasio2018) August 10, 2018Shapiro responded soon afterward, accusing her of slander.Discussion and debate are not bad intentions. Slandering someone as a sexist catcaller without reason or evidence does demonstrate cowardice and bad intent, however. https://t.co/kYaYuf0W43— Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) August 10, 2018But sure, go with the Orthodox Jew who has never catcalled a woman in his life is ACKSHUALLY a sexist catcaller for asking for a discussion or debate. Im sure your media sycophants will eat it up.— Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) August 10, 2018Although Ocasio-Cortez has not engaged Shapiro again, he has shared numerous criticisms of Ocasio-Cortez’s response from conservative voices, some of which are featured below.Its not about owing a response. Its about stepping up to the plate and defending your platform against someone who doesnt agree with you. If by bad intentions, you mean @benshapiro wants to have a civil debate, then sure. How evil. https://t.co/ulb5L7HAYm— Allie Beth Stuckey (@conservmillen) August 10, 2018Okay fine @Ocasio2018, if you wont debate @benshapiro because hes a man (and because he would destroy you intellectually) how about a debate with me? https://t.co/y4m2mkLbVt— Katie Pavlich (@KatiePavlich) August 10, 2018This is your brain on identity politics. By challenging her to debate, @benshapiro was actually treating her as an equal. She knows she'd lose, and she needs to posture for her SJW fans, so she declares herself a victim of "catcalling." Totally demented. https://t.co/o8viIeBAV4— Noah Pollak (@NoahPollak) August 10, 2018While Ocasio-Cortez’s response spotlights the, asAlternet puts it, “gendered dimension” of the attention she has receivedshe has been subject to increased attacks from the right and has had her credentials questioned by many who have not expected more established male candidates to justify their candidacy the same wayit’s important to note that Ocasio-Cortez has run a quintessentially grassroots campaign and that she has refused to accept donations from super PACs and other members of the political establishment. Accepting Shaprio’soffer would compromise that.Ocasio-Cortez was the first person to challenge Joe Crowley in the Democratic primary since 2004, and she won despite being at a significant financial disadvantage.“You can’t really beat big money with more money. You have to beat them with a totally different game,” she said in May.Additionally, although Crowley’s campaign spent $3.4 million on his re-election bid, Ocasio-Cortez spent only $194,000, with nearly three-quarters of the donations she received coming from small individual contributions. (Only 1 percent of the donations Crowley’s campaign received were small individual contributions.)	Liberal
Uber made an important assurance to its drivers in the DC area as the white supremacist rally known as ‘Unite the Right’ prepares to descend on the nation’s capital this weekend.The company reiterated its current community guidelines, which allow drivers to refuse passengers whose ideologies or apparel make them feel unsafe.The current guidelines state:Uber has a zero tolerance policy towards discrimination of any kind. This means you will lose access to your account if you are found to have discriminated against drivers or other riders based on their race, color, religion, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, sex, marital status, gender identity, age or any other characteristic protected under applicable law.In some cases, the riders could be banned all together for “using verbal threats, and making comments or gestures that are aggressive, sexual, discriminatory, or disrespectful.”The reiteration of drivers’ rights to refuse passengers is important. Many white supremacists and neo-Nazis lament that those opposing them are hypocrites who claim to be tolerant, yet refuse to hear their opinions. However, because “opinions” like white supremacist and neo-Nazi ideologies hinge on the disenfranchisement and genocide of swathes of people, it’s logical to conclude that their opinions are dangerous and inciting.It’s for this reason that many Americans on social media are mincing no words when it comes to racists marching proudly in the streets.As they should. This is about to be the largest Nazis rally since World War 2. Shits gonna be so dangerous someone literally was ran over by a KKK member yet Cops bend over backwards for these fascist gang of thugs. VA Governor has declared a State of Emergency too.— DameSweetyIsSavage (@SweetyIsSavage) August 9, 2018Yes, they would be deprived of the most basic necessities in a perfect world.— Macaroni Tony (@jillthewhat) August 9, 2018Its making me uncomfortable seeing POC being begged to stay in their homes this weekend during the Unite the Right rally in DC. Of course I want my people to be safe.But the idea of people having to hide themselves to make white supremacists comfortable aint it.— Demi (@demithedancer) August 9, 2018David Duke, of the KKK, is speaking at the "Unite the Right" in DC.He said Charlottesville was fulfilling Trump's promises.He's right.  It's why everyone should come to DC to counter-protest this weekend & DEMAND: This Nightmare Must End!  The Trump/Pence Regime Must Go!— #TrumpPenceMustGo (@RefuseFascism) August 9, 2018If you are attending or supporting the Unite The Right Rally in DC, I assure you that I have zero interest in associating with you anymore.It will be Charlottesville pt2.It is a thinly-veiled racist gathering.This is out of control.— Paul Brown (@pb609plus1) August 9, 2018Infamously, Unite the Right has proven itself to champion violence and intimidation of those who don’t adhere to its genetic standards.	Liberal
TheUnited States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ordered the Environmental Protection Agency to ban a pesticide called chlorpyrifos, which has been linked to brain damage in children.EPA under Scott Pruitt broke the law by ignoring the conclusions of agency scientists to reverse Obama-era regulations, court rules. https://t.co/xefioeq0FC— NBC News (@NBCNews) August 9, 2018New York’s Attorney General Barbara Underwood praised the ruling in a Twitter post, calling it a “major court victory.” The ban was initially recommended by E.P.A scientists under President Barack Obama, whose administration fought diligently for pro-environmental policies.#BREAKING: We just won a major court victory banning the Trump EPA from allowing the extremely toxic pesticide #chlorpyrifos to be used on food.Studies have shown that kids are so harmed by exposure to chlorpyrifos that their brain structure changes and their IQ is impacted.— NY AG Underwood (@NewYorkStateAG) August 9, 2018In March 2017, Pruitt rejected the findings of the E.P.A.’s own scientists, who in 2016 found that children and infants who had been exposed to chlorpyrifos when used as an insecticide in their homes had “measurable volumetric changes in the cerebral cortex.”In its 2-1 decision, the three-judge panel gave the E.P.A. two months to implement the ban.Judge Jed S. Rakoff of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York authored the majority opinion, stating that the EPA violated the lawsaying there was“no justification for the E.P.A.s decision in its 2017 order to maintain a tolerance for chlorpyrifos in the face of scientific evidence that its residue on food causes neurodevelopmental damage to children.”The ruling strikes a significant blow to President Donald Trump and former E.P.A. Administrator Scott Pruitt, who resigned last month amid a mountain of growing scandals.The E.P.A. has not publicly shared how it plans on responding to the ruling.“E.P.A. is reviewing the decision,” said Michael Abboud, an agency spokesman. “The Columbia centers data underlying the courts assumptions remains inaccessible and has hindered the agencys ongoing process to fully evaluate the pesticide using the best available, transparent science.”The court said that in his refusal to ban chlorpyrifos, Pruitt violated the law.Twitter thinks Pruitt should be held accountable.Thank you! Now charge him with this crime!— tracy richards (@TracyRichards00) August 9, 2018Prosecute Scott Pruitt for endangering children.— Rich Madrid (@Richmadrid11) August 9, 2018Because the pie hole running the EPA had no fricken clue about what he was doing… just another rich friend of Trumpet— Jorge Varona (@cyclingcubano) August 9, 2018JAIL.— bulls on parade (@marketlongs) August 9, 2018#LockHimUp— Brian Lang (@BrianLangAuthor) August 9, 2018“The panel held that there was no justification for the EPA’s decision in its 2017 order to maintain a tolerance for chlorpyrifos in the face of scientific evidence that its residue on food causes neurodevelopmental damage to children,” Appeals Court Judge Jed S. Rakoff wrote in the majority decision.	Liberal
The Pew Research Center has released their most comprehensive survey of the 2016 electorate to date, and President Donald Trump is not likely to approve of the organization’s findings.Pew’s team not only asked people how they voted, they also verified that they did, and that distinction yields information invaluable to our understanding of the most divisive election cycle in decades.Throughits analysis, Pew found that those who sat the election out were particularly crucial in Trump’s victory.Pew notes:Four-in-ten Americans who were eligible to votedid not do so in 2016. There are striking demographic differences between voters and nonvoters, and significant political differences as well. Compared with validated voters, nonvoters were more likely to be younger, less educated, less affluent and nonwhite. And nonvoters were much more Democratic.Not surprisingly, as The Washington Post puts it:Among groups that preferred Clinton, they were about 50 percent more likely to be a bigger part of the nonvoting community.Pew continues:Among members of the panel who were categorized as nonvoters, 37% expressed a preference for Hillary Clinton, 30% for Donald Trump and 9% for Gary Johnson or Jill Stein; 14% preferred another candidate or declined to express a preference. Party affiliation among nonvoters skewed even more Democratic than did candidate preferences. Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents made up a 55% majority of nonvoters; about four-in-ten (41%) nonvoters were Republicans and Republican leaners. Voters were split almost evenly between Democrats and Democratic leaners (51%) and Republicans and Republican leaners (48%).While nonvoters were less likely than voters to align with the GOP, the picture was less clear with respect to ideology. Owing in part to the tendency of nonvoters to be politically disengaged more generally, there are far more nonvoters than voters who fall into the mixed category on the ideological consistency scale. Among nonvoters who hold a set of political values with a distinct ideological orientation, those with generally liberal values (30% of all nonvoters) considerably outnumbered those with generally conservative values (18%).Voters were much more highly educated than nonvoters. Just 16% of nonvoters were college graduates, compared with 37% of voters. Adults with only a high school education constituted half (51%) of nonvoters, compared with 30% among voters. Whites without a college degree made up 43% of nonvoters, about the same as among voters (44%). But nonwhites without a college degree were far more numerous among nonvoters (at 42%) than they were among voters (19%).There also were wide income differences between voters and nonvoters. More than half (56%) of nonvoters reported annual family incomes under $30,000. Among voters, just 28% fell into this income category.The graph below shows that nonwhites made up nearly half of nonvoters, but only a quarter of those who actually did vote.Pew’s survey also showed that women tended to prefer Hillary Clinton to Trump and that they made up a higher percentage of those who voted than those who did not. This informations helps us better understand how Clinton captured the popular vote. But, asThe Washington Post points out:But women contains multitudes. Black, working-class Democratic women; white, wealthy Republican women. The split by party shows how that makes a difference: Republicans made up more of the voter pool than the nonvoter pool and, unsurprisingly, broadly supported Trump.The graph below shows the split by party.The graph below showsthat men, overall, made up a larger percentage of those who did not vote at all.Pew’s research also found that whilehalf of nonvoters were white, 74 percent of voters were also white.Pew also noted that people under the age of 30 preferred Clinton to Trump by 30 points. However, they made up much more of the nonvoter population than the population that actually voted. A third of nonvoters were under the age of 30.	Liberal
A federal judge in Washington D.C. threatened to hold Attorney General Jeff Sessions in contempt of court on Thursday after he learned the Department of Justice tried to deport a mother and daughter who were awaiting a court date for an appeal of a prior deportation order.Judge halts mother-daughter deportation, threatens to hold Sessions in contempt https://t.co/sthd9IgurG— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) August 9, 2018U.S. District Court Judge Emmet G. Sullivan scolded Sessions, saying the decision to subvert due process was “outrageous.”The ACLU announced Sullivan’s ruling on Twitter.BREAKING: In challenge to Sessions' policy of denying asylum protection to immigrants fleeing domestic violence and gang brutality, the judge blocked the government from deporting our clients as he considers the case.However, disturbing news came to light during the hearing.— ACLU (@ACLU) August 9, 2018The judge ordered the government to turn the plane around and bring the asylum-seeking mother and child back to the US.He said that if the situation wasn't fixed he would consider contempt proceedings  starting with the attorney general.— ACLU (@ACLU) August 9, 2018Sessions and the Justice Department are the defendants in a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union earlier this week, which alleges the federal government’s new policy of rejecting asylum claims based on domestic and gang violence is “blocking thousands of migrants from seeking asylum in the United States,” according to the Washington Post.“Without an injunction, Plaintiffs and thousands of other immigrants like them desperately seeking safety will be unlawfully deported to places where they fear they will be raped, kidnapped, beaten, and killed,” the complaint says.The woman in question, “Carmen,” had her case delayed until 11:59 P.M. Thursday night, but was escorted onto a plane along with her daughter Thursday morning in San Antonio, Texas to be thrown out of the country.“This is pretty outrageous,” Sullivan said. “That someone seeking justice in U.S. court is spirited away while her attorneys are arguing for justice for her?”The judge added:Im not happy about this at all… this is not acceptable.Sullivan then ordered Sessions to “turn the plane around” as part of his decision to stay Carmen’s removal.Justice Department attorney Erez Reuveni told the court he didn’t know where Carmen and her daughter were or whether they had yet left the United States.Lawyers for the federal government later confirmed the pair were on their way to El Salvador and that the plane had been instructed to return, per the court’s order.The ACLU said the “disregard for commitments made to the court and the life or death circumstances that these immigrant women and children are facing is beyond unacceptable.”This disregard for commitments made to the court and the life or death circumstances that these immigrant women and children are facing is beyond unacceptable.— ACLU (@ACLU) August 9, 2018The ACLU responded to the court’s decision and blasted the Justice Department for its treatment of asylum-seekers.	Liberal
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who,in perhaps the biggest upset of the 2018 midterm election season,won theDemocraticprimaryinNew York’s 14th congressional district, defeating the incumbent, Joe Crowley, questioned whyCongress seems to have no money when it comes to paying for Medicare for all but seems to have no problem finding the funds to supportunlimited war and tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.Health care for all Americansis not a pipe dream. Every other developed nation does this why cant America? Ocasio-Cortez asked.She continued, calling out the Republican Party for its spending habits, saying that the United States only has “empty pockets when it comes to the morally right things to do”:We write unlimited blank checks for war. We just wrote a $2 trillion check for that GOP tax cut and nobody asked those folks how they are going to pay for it…Why is it that our pockets are only empty when it comes to education and health care for our kids? Why are our pockets only empty when we talk about 100 percent renewable energy that is going to save this planet and allow our children to thrive?… We only have empty pockets when it comes to the morally right things to do. When it comes to tax cuts for billionaires and when it comes to unlimited war, we seem to be able to invent that money very easily. To me, it belies a lack of moral priorities that people have right now, especially the Republican Party."We only have empty pockets when it comes to the morally right things to do, but when it comes to tax cuts for billionaires and when it comes to unlimited war we seem to be able to invent that money very easily," Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez says. https://t.co/cgpyxY7z1g pic.twitter.com/dgVgv8EMRb— CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) August 9, 2018Ocasio-Cortez’s interview was widely praised.It's insane that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez thinks that the United States could afford to pay for Medicare-for-all.Anyway, let's spend trillions on a Space Force.— Nick Jack Pappas (@Pappiness) August 9, 2018AOC is amazing at messaging. She's calling health care premiums a tax, which is true per SCOTUS. I don't think I've really heard Sanders or Warren or anyone do this. https://t.co/pHjaCyUy6c— Alex Kotch  (@alexkotch) August 9, 2018If conservatives are outraged that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez sometimes makes mistakes in describing policy wait until they hear about 2016 presidential candidate Donald Trump.— Chris Jackson (@ChrisCJackson) August 9, 2018Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez gives me hope, energy, and courage!!!!! @Ocasio2018— Mitra Jouhari (@tweetrajouhari) August 9, 2018"We write unlimited blank checks for war….We only have empty pockets when it comes to the morally right things to do."Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez killed it. YOU GO GIRL! Let them know!— StanceGrounded (@_SJPeace_) August 9, 2018Naturally, her statements made her a target for conservatives, including Representative Jason Chaffetz, who insists “her facts are totally wrong.”.@jasoninthehouse on Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: "Her numbers and her facts are totally wrong." pic.twitter.com/aqSfX8hLvn— FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) August 9, 2018And others piled on.This woman's understanding of the world is so shallow its hard to take her seriously. She has a very idealized view I guess. Unfortunately she hasn't come to terms with the fact that most people's idealized view is different from hers, and the complexities that arise as a result.— RickN (@rjnln02) August 9, 2018Good news for 'Socialism' !  Inflation is expected to reach One Million  Percent this year in Venezuela !  Keep the Leftist/Communist/Socialists  out of office here in the USA. If they love it so much, let them go  THERE !— Kerry White (@Gotorah5) August 9, 2018Just watched the Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez interview on CNN. Holy smokes. These are friendly interview and all her responses are still cringe-worthy.@SethAMandel 's description of her as: "a Palinesque socialist who makes Trump look like a policy heavyweight" was so spot on.— (((AG))) (@AG_Conservative) August 9, 2018https://twitter.com/AndreaNRuth/status/1027565064012713986This isn’t the first time Ocasio-Cortez has made similar points. Last month, while speaking to Trevor Noah, she said many of the current crop of politicians in Congress lack the moral courage to bring a health care rehaul to the forefront.A lot of what we need to do is reprioritize what we want to accomplish as a nation. Really, what this is about is saying, health care is important enough for us to put first. Education is important enough for us to put first. And that is a decision that requires political and moral courage, from both parts of the aisle. Period.	Liberal
Vice President Mike Pence on Thursday outlined plans for a Space Force, a new “separate but equal” branch of the military that President Donald Trump wants to establish and implement by 2020.Giving a speech at the Pentagon, Pence said a Space Force is necessary to defend the United States against the growing military and space capabilities of adversaries like China and Russia.Breaking: Pence details plan for creation of a Space Force that would become the sixth branch of the military https://t.co/rumEiAwIMt— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) August 9, 2018“Just as weve done in ages past, the United States will meet the emerging threats on this new battlefield,” he said. “The time has come to establish the United States Space Force.”Pence added that the weaponization of space is “the next and the natural evolution of American supremacy.”.@POTUS Trump is committed to preparing for the next battlefield where Americas best and bravest will be called to deter and defeat a new generation of threats to our people and our nation The time has come to establish the United States #SpaceForce. https://t.co/NvblGTdJCO— Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) August 9, 2018“America will always seek peace, in space as on earth,” Pence added. “But history proves that peace only comes through strength. And in the realm of outer space, the United States Space Force will be that strength.”Trump responded to Pence’s speech on Twitter: “Space Force all the way!”Space Force all the way!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 9, 2018Trump got roasted immediately.Manaforce all the way to prison!— God  (@TheGoodGodAbove) August 9, 2018hahahahaha pic.twitter.com/uEeffXZAit— gone for a while (@keanothedog) August 9, 2018Trump I think you mean Meme* Force— Dr Grandayy (@grandayy) August 9, 2018Can you just take some pictures of a Buzz Lightyear action figure on the mood and tell him its space force? Everything else has stealth tech no its invisible— Archimedes supports journalist's lives!  (@Archimedes2020) August 9, 2018To covfefe and beyond!— Covfefe (@covfefe) August 9, 2018How are we going to pay for this, exactly?Policy meeting at the WH:"Ok so we're 21.3 trillion dollars in debt, there's a syrian refugee crisis, California is on fire, Flint has poisoned waters, our schools are underfunded, there's massive income inequality-""Guys, guys guys. Hear me out: Lasers… in space"— Andrew Solender (@AndrewSolender) August 9, 2018HOW ARE WE GOING TO PAY FOR IT?— Kay (@tx_kay83) August 9, 2018The $8 billion proposal would require Congressional approval and would take away responsibilities from the Air Force, which currently monitors our skies.Former NASA astronaut Mark Kelly called Trump’s Space Force a “dumb idea.”This is a dumb idea. The Air Force does this already. That is their job. Whats next, we move submarines to the 7th branch and call it the under-the-sea force? https://t.co/S1urOuJBe6— Mark Kelly (@ShuttleCDRKelly) June 19, 2018If Trump can’t get a wall on the U.S.-Mexican border, why not wall off the planet?If Trump Can't Even Build His Wall, Can He Build A Space Force? https://t.co/Lx4Zr7rOUB via @IBDinvestors— SenGems (@SensualGemss) August 9, 2018Meanwhile, space exploration, which includes planetary defense research against asteroids and meteors, faces steep budget cuts.	Liberal
The Russian embassy has released a statement on the White House’s retaliatory sanctions for what intelligence communities believe was Russia’s use of chemical weapons against former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter earlier this year.Skripal, who acted as a double agent for UK intelligence agencies in the 1990’s, was found slumped on a bench with his daughter, Yulia Skripal, in Salisbury, England this past March. The two were in critical condition after being attacked with the nerve agent novichok, which was developed in Russia between the 1970’s and 1990’s. The sanctions will limit exports of goods and technology to the country, while broader sanctions could come in about three months.The Russian embassy has continued to deny any involvement:(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v3.1';  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));#Embassy_Statement US sanctions assembly line increases its production output. On August 8, 2018 our Deputy Chief of…Posted by Embassy of Russia in the USA /     on Wednesday, August 8, 2018The White House’s position falls in line with that of British detectives and government officials who have determined that the perpetrators were most likely Russian agents. One UK official close to the investigation said:Investigators believe they have identified the suspected perpetrators of thenovichokattack through CCTV and have cross-checked this with records of people who entered the country around that time. Theyare sure [the suspects]are Russian.CNN Chief National Security Correspondent Jim Sciutto pointed out that the White House’s sanctions are mandated under a 1991 law and that, if anything the sanctions came too late.To be clear on today's Trump admin sanctions on #Russia for #Skripal poisoning:– They are mandated under the 1991 Chemical & Biological Weapons Control & Warfare Elimination Act for chemical weapons use. – WH blew past the law's 60-day deadline by a month.1/— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) August 8, 2018He also warned that harsher sanctions could still be coming if Russia doesn’t comply with demands to cease the use of chemical weapons.2/The law mandates a second, more Draconian round of sanctions unless:-Russia assures the US it is no longer using chemical or biological weapons-Russia allows onsite inspectors to ensure the government is not using chem/bio weapons— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) August 8, 20183/ That second round could include:– Ending flights to US by Russian national carrier Aeroflot– Banning all/most Russian imports/exports with US– cutting off diplomatic relations— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) August 8, 2018Russia’s deadline to do so falls on an already crucial date:4/Russia now has 90 days to comply.**90 days from today is Election Day**— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) August 8, 20185/ Since virtually no one expects Russia to comply with the law's conditions, in 90 days, the Trump administration will face a very big test of its Russia policy.— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) August 8, 2018Though Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election may seem like a completely separate incident, the two are more intertwined than some might think.	Liberal
Fox News host Laura Ingraham went on a racist rant Wednesday night on her show,The Ingraham Angle. The conservative railedagainst “demographic changes” that “none of us ever voted for.”As videofeaturing people working on farms and scaling walls played in the corner of the screen, Ingraham said that the “America we know and love doesn’t exist anymore.”Laura Ingraham: "The America we know and love doesn't exist anymore. Massive demographic changes have been foisted on the American people, and they are changes that none of us ever voted for, and most of us don't like … this is related to both illegal and legal immigration" pic.twitter.com/s5G2qIY4W0— Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) August 9, 2018“Massive demographic changes have been foisted on the American people,” Ingraham whined, forgetting that the United States isn’t only for white people. “And they are changes that none of us ever voted for, and most of us don’t like.”"Massive demographic changes" nobody asked for? Wow. That's a new fancy way to describe racism.— TheBeeAintSilent (@beeAINTsilent) August 9, 2018As more video played of people pulling carrots out of the ground and scaling what could be a border wall (really?), Ingraham blamed immigration for ruining her vision of America.From Virginia to California, we see stark examples of how radically in some ways the country has changedAccording to Ingraham, even legal immigration is a big problem.“Now all of this is related to both illegal and in some cases legal immigration,” Ingraham said, “that, of course, progressives just love.”It seems Ingraham’s version of America isone that is by, for, and of white people.Massive demographic changes means less white people. Less white people means less Republicans in Office. Theyre scared of becoming the minority.— Ginny from Texas! (@GinnyMac55) August 9, 2018In a later segment headlined “alleged bias in the criminal justice system,” Ingraham asked her guest if “black on black crime, for instance right now in Chicago, a bigger problem for the community than just the racism that you claim is in the criminal justice system?”Ingraham later in the same show: Is black on black crime a bigger problem than the racism that you claim exists in the criminal justice system? pic.twitter.com/2Jdmzss3g1— Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) August 9, 2018Twitter scolded Ingraham for her white supremacist comments, which some said tread dangerously close to Naziism.when you build an immunity to regular racism and need that pure nazi shit— raandy (@randygdub) August 9, 2018Normally, calling someone a Nazi for mere racism would be a stretch. Except… pic.twitter.com/g9JwvLUtgC— Kevin Tripp (@kevintripp) August 9, 2018She's just so painfully, achingly close to looking dead-eyed in the camera and saying the 14 words.— Ethan Winter (@EthanBWinter) August 9, 2018The “14 words” refers to the most popular slogan in the white supremacist movement: “We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children.”https://t.co/7eZYxD7fkt— Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) August 9, 2018From that same page.88 is a very bizarre number to use for this purpose. If you're unaware, 88 is a neo Nazi reference to the 8th letter, "H". It means Heil Hitler. pic.twitter.com/7mR2UTL0zh— Joseph Steyne (@JosephSteyne) August 9, 2018“Fox News isn’t even trying to hide it anymore.” But “both sides” something or other.oh cool so fox news isnt even trying to hide it anymore theyre just openly saying they want a white ethnostate . gotta hear  both sides i guess !— TRILLIONAIRE (@maltyhops) August 9, 2018“Straight up white nationalism.”Fox used to just be sort of the country club style of racism, which is extremely awful….but they've crossed the threshold now. Just straight up white nationalism every single night— Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) August 9, 2018Speaking of demographic changes no one asked for…@IngrahamAngle you hood is showing. The native Americans didnt approve of the demographic changes either but it was force on them anyway, they did not want to give up there land but it was taken anyway, they did not want the European culture but it was force on them anyway., etc— veritas_media (@veritatis_media) August 9, 2018Ingraham’s hypocrisy regarding her own family did not go unnoticed either.	Liberal
Leaked audio recordings reveal that Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA) admitted that collusion can be a crime during a private fundraiser last month. In the recordings, which were obtained by MSBC’sThe Rachel Maddow Show, Nunes is heard explaining why colluding with a foreign power can be considered criminal activity.Nunes commented on collusion during the July 30 fundraiser for Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA):Now if somebody thinks that my campaign or Cathys campaign is colluding with the Chinese, or you name the country, hey, could happen, it would be a very bad thing if Cathy was getting secrets from the Portuguese, lets say, just because Im Portuguese, my family was. So Cathy was getting secret information from the Portuguese. You know, may or may not be unusual. But ultimately lets say the Portuguese came and brought her some stolen emails. And she decided to release those. Okay, now we have a problem, right? Because somebody stole the emails, gave em to Cathy, Cathy released em. Well, if thats the case, then thats criminal.The audio was recorded bya member of the progressive group Fuse Washington. The individual then turned over the recordings toThe Rachel Maddow Show, which aired them last night.Despite these comments, Nunes still lashed out at Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his probe into whether President Donald Trump’s campaign, with the help of Russian operatives, worked to undermine and subvert the 2016 presidential election.They know its ridiculous to go after the president for obstruction of justice. But if they tell a lie often enough and they put it out there and they say, Oh, were looking at the tweets, cause you know youve got a mixed bag on the tweets, right? Like sometimes you love the presidents tweets, sometimes we cringe on the presidents tweets. But theyre trying to make a political, this is all political as to why that story ran in the New York Times on the tweets.Nunes refers to tweets the president wrote earlier this week:Trump quoted Fox & Friendsone of his favorite news programsto support his new line of defense: That collusion, that is, in this case, secret and illegal cooperation with the Russian government,didhappen, but that it was the fault of former Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton and her campaign.Collusion with Russia was very real. Hillary Clinton and her team 100% colluded with the Russians, and so did Adam Schiff who is on tape trying to collude with what he thought was Russians to obtain compromising material on DJT. We also know that Hillary Clinton paid through….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 6, 2018….a law firm, eventually Kremlin connected sources, to gather info on Donald Trump. Collusion is very real with Russia, but only with Hillary and the Democrats, and we should demand a full investigation. Dan Bongino on @foxandfriends  Looking forward to the new IG Report!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 6, 2018Still, Nunes worries that the president’s many scandalsand the public’s outrage at the Republican Party for failing to rein him incould cost the GOP their majority in both houses of Congress. All of this becomes more difficult for Republicans to stave off should Democrats seizecontrol of the House of Representatives in November’s midterm elections.So therein lies, so its like your classic Catch-22 situation where we were at a  this puts us in such a tough spot. If Sessions wont unrecuse and Mueller wont clear the president, were the only ones. Which is really the danger. Thats why I keep, and thank you for saying it by the way, I mean we have to keep all these seats. We have to keep the majority. If we do not keep the majority, all of this goes away.Nunes also used an exchange with an audience member to explain why efforts to impeachDeputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein had stalled. Nunes said thatan impeachment would delay the Senate’s confirmation ofBrett Kavanaughto the Supreme Court.The exchange is as follows:AUDIENCE MEMBER:But also, on things that came up in the House on Rosenstein impeachment thing. And it appears from an outsider that the Republicans were not supported.NUNES:Yeah, well, so its a bit complicated, right? And I say that because you have to, so we only have so many months left, right? So if we actually vote to impeach, okay, what that does is that triggers the Senate then has to take it up. Well, and you have to decide what you want right now because the Senate only has so much time. Do you want them to drop everything and not confirm the Supreme Court justice, the new Supreme Court justice? So thats part of why, I dont think you have, youre not getting from, and Ive said publicly Rosenstein deserves to be impeached. I mean, so, I dont think youre gonna get any argument from most of our colleagues. The question is the timing of it right before the election.REPRESENTATIVE CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (R-WA):Also, the Senate has to start”NUNES:The Senate would have to start, the Senate would have to drop everything theyre doing and start to, and start with impeachment on Rosenstein. And then take the risk of not getting Kavanaugh confirmed. So its not a matter that any of us like Rosenstein. Its a matter of, its a matter of timing.”	Liberal
The woman known mainly by her first nameOmarosawent from self-described reality TV actress to White House staffer, all alongside Donald Trump. She adds tell-all author to her resume on August 14, 2018, when her expose’ on working in the Trump White Housetitled Unhinged comes out.But Omarosa is not just another former White House official making claims that the Trump administration can dismiss as fake news.Turns out,Omarosa has the recordings to back her stories up and no, they are not illegal. Washington DClike New York where Michael Cohen recorded Trumpfalls under a one-party consent lawThe Daily Beast broke the story of the recordings on Wednesday.EXCLUSIVE: Omarosa secretly recorded conversations with Trump while working in The White House, and she has played them for people while pushing her new book “UNHINGED,” sources tell The Daily Beast https://t.co/5DSPXCpccJ The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) August 8, 2018While no tweet from President Trump addressing the recordings or Omarosa’s book exists yet, people quickly found a 2013 Twitter post that then-reality TV performer Trump made about her, that he may want to take back after today’s news:Honest Omarosa: she won't backstab-she'll come at you from the front.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 11, 2013As others observed:There is always a tweet https://t.co/UIE1gdlD3G Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) August 8, 2018There really is a Trump tweet for everything. Hes like Nostradamus for his own political downfall. Georgia (@im2b4u2) August 8, 2018 In fact, people found more than one tweet. In another 2013 Twitter post, Trump marvels at the idea of anyone being afraid of Omarosa.I’ll bet he’s afraid now. ?? pic.twitter.com/y5F55dZUt4 D Villella ?? (@dvillella) August 8, 2018Omarosa Manigault-Newman first came to public attention in 2004 after appearing on the first season of NBC’s reality television series, The Apprentice, starring Donald Trump. But that was only the beginning of their relationship.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s tax cuts have exploded the federal budget deficitaccording to a new report issued by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.Federal deficit jumps 20 percent after Trump tax cuts, spending bill: CBO report https://t.co/JOqFEkZ04r pic.twitter.com/6iSyonrYoB— The Hill (@thehill) August 8, 2018The CBO released its findings on Wednesday that the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act combined with increased spending will drive the deficit up to $793 billion by the end of 2018 and will push it to $1 trillion next year – a 20 percent increase over 2017’s $666 billion deficit.The budget deficit is set to go over 1 trillion for the first time EVER under Trump. So try again…— Wcorbe (@wcorbe) August 8, 2018CBO projected a deficit in fiscal year 2018 of $793 billion, outlays of $4.1 trillion, and receipts of $3.3 trillion.This is because the federal government borrowed $116 billion more this year than it did last year.The Long-Term Budget Outlook Under Alternative Scenarios for Fiscal Policyhttps://t.co/4a9aermfmr— U.S. CBO (@USCBO) August 8, 2018The deficit in 2016 was $587 billion and increased to $666 billion in 2017, Trump’s first year in office.The rest of the report is bleak.The CBO projected that if the federal government continues to be starved of revenue, absent spending cuts to offset lower tax rates, the United States will essentially be insolvent by the 2030s.Assuming no major changes in the tax code or in federal spending, “federal debt held by the public rises from an amount equal to78percent of GDP in 2018 to 118percent of GDP in2038.”The CBO said that if tax rates remain the same through 2026, “federal debt would equal 148percent of GDP in 2038 and continue to rise in later years.”If tax rates are again lowered after 2028 and revenue decreases compared to GDP, “debt would equal 151percent of GDP in 2038 and keep rising thereafter.”Most alarmingly is the CBO’s projection of the effect of another tax cut “after 2018,” which calculated that the “debt would equal 165percent of GDP in 2038 and keep rising.”In 30 years, the CBO projects, servicing the national debt will become the government’s largest expenditure, surpassing Social Security and defense – and that’s only on theinterest.Additionally, the CBO said that unchecked borrowing is “increasing the likelihood of a fiscal crisisa situation in which the interest rate on federal debt rise abruptly, dramatically increasing the cost of government borrowing.”Granted, the economy grew by an impressive 4.1 percent in Q2 of 2018, however, growth would have to be much higher to reduce the deficit, the CBO said.Is this how you #MAGA? Twitter wondered.The Hill: Is this MAGA, folks? Federal deficit jumps by 20%? And, guess where theyll get the $$$ to offset the deficit? Medicare, Social Security & Med-Welfare, which they believe are their checking accounts available $$$$$!!!— Victoria Collazo (@VictoriaCollaz2) August 8, 2018Concerned citizens on social media were quick to ask why Republicans, who claim to be debt and deficit hawks, seem unconcerned over the nation’s ballooning debt and deficit.	Liberal
An unsettling new development has emerged in the ongoing negotiations between Special Counsel Robert Mueller and the Trump administration to schedule an interview between the counsel and President Donald Trump.On Wednesday, Trump’s lawyers rejected the latest terms for an interview with the counsel, deeming questions of obstruction of justice off the table and continuing efforts to put forth some answers in writing. Another condition, however, speaks to the little faith Trump’s own advisors have that the president can refrain from lying.The advisors reportedly don’t want Trump to testify under oath, fearing that if he did, he’d inevitably lie.One anonymous advisor reportedly said:If you dont want to accuse someone of perjury, you dont need to have them answer questions under oath.Even Trump’s head lawyer, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani doesn’t believe the president should answer questions under oath:What theyre really trying to do is trap him into perjury, and were not suckers.Giuliani did not address why the president should be concerned about perjuring himself, if Trump is as innocent as he and his administration have frequently claimed.Twitter, however, was quick to remind him.Hahahaha. How many times has Trump complained about Clinton's FBI interview not being under oath? (And, no, the FBI doesn't interview people under oath anyway and it doesn't actually matter legally.) https://t.co/ZvRlwEH86O pic.twitter.com/ju1xK6q0iN— Matthew Miller (@matthewamiller) August 8, 2018The fact that Giuliani doesn't want Trump to answer certain questions under oath, means he knows that no matter how his client answers, he'll incriminate himself.Innocent people arent afraid to answer questions under oath.https://t.co/vTN6Bc4Yot— Wes Jordan (@wesley_jordan) August 8, 2018The Trump Team line is that they cant be trusted to tell the truth and therefore they cant ever agree to testify under oath or otherwise subject to 18 USC 1001. Thats pathetic. pic.twitter.com/xyU3EHTsSY— Bradley P. Moss (@BradMossEsq) August 8, 2018A good perjury trap would be if Mueller asks Trump, under oath, if he really believes his son is wonderful.— Guy Endore-Kaiser (@GuyEndoreKaiser) August 5, 2018The demand that any statements by the president not be made under oath comes at a time when Trump’s lies are increasing ever rapidly.	Liberal
Facebook offices are known for their free gourmet cafeterias staffed by former restaurant chefs and featuring ramen bars and on-site smoke shacks. Its no wonder employees dont have much interest in wandering off campus for lunch.One Silicon Valley city doesnt like that, and other cities may be starting to follow suit.Mountain View, Calif., at the southern end of the San Francisco Bay Area peninsula, is gearing up to host a new satellite location for the social media behemoth, headquartered just north in Menlo Park. However, unlike other offices such as the headquarters building itself and the East Coast facility in New York, the Mountain View locale will not boast a free cafeteria with endless desserts, kombucha taps and a carving station.Why not? Because, critics argue, the lack of foot traffic from workers taking lunch breaks hurts surrounding restaurants, retailers and the local economy in general.“Restaurants often provide the anchor to get people on the street, and while they’re out they patron other retail,” Gwyneth Borden, executive director of the Golden Gate Restaurant Association, told Business Insider. “While there will always be competition for the food dollar, it goes without saying that it’s hard to compete with free.”In late July, legislators in San Francisco proposed a city-wide ban on workplace cafeterias, inspired by the effect the headquarters for Twitter and Airbnb  which both feature on-site cafeterias  had on their surrounding neighborhoods. Restaurants that opened in Twitters neighborhood, Mid-Market, in the wake of Twitters 2012 relocation, have particularly struggled in attracting foot traffic and many have since closed.Having (tech workers) in their offices and not engaging with the community isnt really good for the community or these small businesses, Chris Foley, co-owner of the Market, a food hall underneath Twitters headquarters, told The San Francisco Chronicle.The legislation, if accepted and passed, would be retroactive and apply to new businesses only.The aim, according to San Francisco Supervisor Aaron Peskin, is to mitigate the Amazon effect that impacts retail and restaurants across the county, he told the SF Examiner. People will have to go out and eat lunch with the rest of us.	Liberal
In case there’s any doubt that several of President Donald Trump’s associates have been charged with crimes or are pleading guilty to crimessome of which are related to Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Russian meddlingAaron Blake, TheWashington Post’s senior political reporter, tweeted a list of people who are contending with just that. And yes, they are all close associates of the president himself.List of people charged with/pleading to crimes:-Trump's 2nd campaign manager-Trump's deputy campaign manager-Trump's national security adviser-Trump's foreign policy adviser-Trump's 1st campaign manager (battery charges later dropped)-Trump's first congressional endorser— Aaron Blake (@AaronBlake) August 8, 2018Here’s the rundown:The responses to Blake’s tweet have been largely sardonic in their mockery of the president, who has claimed to only hire “the best people” to work for him."I only hire all the best people" (who happen to prefer criminal activities & behaviors) but "all the best people". #CORRUPTION— Beth Gray (@Shades_of_Gray) August 8, 2018Whole lotta criming going on in Trump's immediate vicinity…— Steve Dyke (@hewasahero) August 8, 2018Our president is essentially a mob boss. And whats worse, hed take that as a compliment.— Morgan Baum (@Baum5away) August 8, 2018Um….he hardly knew them. They worked on the campaign for 40 seconds or something. They were ……coffee boys (yeah, thats the ticket).— MaryAnn Hemmingson (@MaryaMahtini) August 8, 2018Well, Trump did promise to drain the swamp. Probably not what he had in mind — gnanse nelson (@gnanse) August 8, 2018Representative Adam Schiff also listed off a few other names tied to scandals of their own which might be of interest to our readers.Add GOP Rep. Collins, arrested today for insider trading, to the list of the indicted, convicted or disgraced that surround the President: Gates, Manafort, Flynn, Pruitt, Jackson, Price, Papadopoulos, PorterFor a complete list, Twitter will need to expand character limit.— Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) August 8, 2018While some of these names have already been covered, Schiff is also referring to:In recent days, the president and his attorney Rudy Giuliani, have come under fire for their attempts to distance themselves from Mueller’s investigation, even as Mueller continues to rack up indictments.	Liberal
As the 2018 Atlantic hurricane season approaches, FEMA has released its long-awaited report into its failures during the 2017 season. To its credit, FEMA acknowledges how it failed (and continues to fail) Puerto Rico. But FEMA administrator Brock Long also shifted some of the blame to the catastrophes victims. The 2017 hurricane season showed that all levels of government  and individual families  need to be much better prepared with their own supplies, he said. Particularly in remote or insular areas where commodities take longer to deliver.But even if Puerto Rico had been somehow better equipped to endure one of the worst hurricanes on record, FEMA was shockingly unprepared for Hurricane Marias after effects.As a reminder, 4,645 Americans died in Hurricane Maria and its aftermath. For reference, an estimated 1,836 died as the result of Hurricane Katrina.In fairness to FEMAs staff, 2017 was a year heavy with disaster. More than five million people applied for FEMA relief in 2017; that number outstrips the applications following Hurricanes Rita, Wilma, Sandy, and Katrina combined. They served more than 130 million meals, 35 million in Puerto Rico alone. And they did it while desperately understaffed.Obama-era FEMA chief Craig Fugate says that even if a resupply shipment had arrived, it would have been minimal. There are empty shelves here, Mr. Fugate remembers thinking during a visit to FEMAs San Juan depot. We leased the building and were only using some of it. Why are we not stocking more stuff? They said: This is based on what we have historically used here.Recovery from the storm is still ongoing in Puerto Rico as the 2018 hurricane season approaches. As of July 16, electricity had been restored to just 95% of the island. In June, nine months after the storm, the local government released the official fatality count of 4,645, under duress. Previously, the official death toll was 64 people.Critics may perceive this story as the collision of two overarching credos of Donald Trumps administration, with catastrophic results. Weve reported before on how Trumps emphasis on smaller government has resulted in unprecedented staff turnover and thousands of unfilled positions. And the Executive Branchs denial of climate change  going so far as to remove it from the EPAs website  means that it cannot acknowledge the realities of more frequent and more violent weather events. Combine those two elements with the anti-immigrant fervor of Trumps base, and a clearer understanding of the Hurricane Maria response begins to emerge.	Liberal
After a wave of crucial elections on Tuesday, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to brag about the strength of his endorsements.He tweeted:5 for 5!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018The Republicans have now won 8 out of 9 House Seats, yet if you listen to the Fake News Media you would think we are being clobbered. Why cant they play it straight, so unfair to the Republican Party and in particular, your favorite President!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018And then made a wild generalization about the power of his support:As long as I campaign and/or support Senate and House candidates (within reason), they will win! I LOVE the people, & they certainly seem to like the job Im doing. If I find the time, in between China, Iran, the Economy and much more, which I must, we will have a giant Red Wave!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018The statement is questionable at best, of course. Tuesday night’s elections were far more alarming than uplifting for Republicans.The special election for Ohio’s 12th district–a district Donald Trump won by double digits in 2016–remains too close to call despite millions of dollars, swathes of campaign ads, a presidential visit, and other Republican efforts to elect Troy Balderson to the House of Representatives. It was supposed to be an easy win for Republicans, but now a conclusive result remains delayed. Special elections elsewhere continue to shift toward Democrats.For context, here are the special elections weve had so far in the Trump era. Dems have overperformed  well, everywhere: https://t.co/55U8KXL2rm pic.twitter.com/sAIwJlILHC— FiveThirtyEight (@FiveThirtyEight) August 7, 2018Interesting. 3,435 provisional ballots outstanding. It looks like potential recount territory, though. Fascinating that both a Trump & Kasich endorsement, nearly $6 Million dollars spent by the GOP and a district that has gone R since basically the 20's is a nail-bitter #OH12— CourtneyG (@gbpackersgal) August 8, 2018What a nail-biter, #OH12! This race shows the energy of the @Democrats as we inch closer to the midterm elections in November. No matter what the outcome, don't forget that this district is R+7… And the fact that Dems are so close, speaks to a potential #bluewave— Richard A. Fowler (@Richardafowler) August 8, 2018Not to mention the fact that the majority of the elections he istouting from yesterday are Republican primaries. He has proven hisstrength as a kingmaker inRepublican primaries, it’sonce they go up against Democrats wherehissupport is less sure.So his claim that a “Giant Red Wave” is coming is questionable at best. Althoughthat didn’t keep him from tweeting it again later in theday:RED WAVE!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 8, 2018 However, Trump’s endorsements even before Tuesday have hardly had the impact of a Midas touch.	Liberal
Monday, Fox News Outnumbered host Dagen McDowell sat down with Judge Andrew Napolitano and other guests to discuss the possibility of President Donald Trump sitting for an interview with Special Counsel Robert Mueller as part of the Russia investigation.Napolitano, like most other legal experts, advised against Trump agreeing to an interview under oath.McDowell concurred, but for an interesting reason. She first asserts interviewing the President is a trap he cannot avoid. She stated:“From the outside looking in doesnt it look like increasingly that the Mueller team is setting a trap for the president if he decides to speak with them?”And the spring for that trap? McDowell suggests Trump is incapable of speaking to Mueller without committing perjury.How in the world could he ever cooperate and sit down with Mueller for an interview knowing that if you tell one lie to Bob Mueller, he will move to file charges?”But guest Jessica Tarlov offered another option for the President. Trump could sit for the interview and not lie. She stated:He could not tell a lie, that’s always an option here. There have been so many lies from the beginning.”Watch the exchange here:Here’s Fox News’ @dagenmcdowell revealing she has absolutely no clue how being interviewed by FBI agents works: “How in the world could [Trump] ever cooperate & sit down with Mueller for an interview, knowing that if you tell one lie to Bob Mueller, he will move to file charges.” pic.twitter.com/J4avD6M8dR Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) August 8, 2018Tarlov went on to list some of the statementsTrump made related to the Mueller investigation that proved untrue or were contradictory to other statements the President made.Like the evolving story of the Trump Tower meeting where Donald Trump Jr. and Jared Kushner spoke with at least one Russian government operative. Or the related story of Trump Jr.’s false statement about the meeting, dictated by the President on Air Force One.Or the changing story of the payment made to Stephanie Clifforda.k.a. Stormy Danielsand the proposed payment to Karen McDougal. Or the inconsequential but no less prevalent lies about inauguration crowd sizes or winning the popular vote.The President’s moral character even led to 7 religious and civic leaders in Washington DC petitioning for Trump to have his liquor license for Trump International Hotel revoked. They also cited statements made by the President which proved untrue.At this point, lies are as much a part of Donald Trumps political identity as his floppy orange hair and the Make America Great Again slogan: https://t.co/ASi4pZ6D38 pic.twitter.com/t0WoUTHfEF The New Yorker (@NewYorker) August 8, 2018McDowell is correct in stating that lying under oath or as part of a criminal investigation is discouraged. And her assertion that Trump would inevitably perjure himself has some merit.Various organizations tracking Trump’s public lies while in office now put the total over 4,200. These count only official statements, speeches and Twitter posts.Today I’ve asked an expert on Czechoslovakia, an expert on the steel industry, an expert on the auto industry, a spokesperson for Harvard Law School, and two experts on missile defense whether a Trump claim about their subject area was true.Answers: no, no, no, no, no, no. Daniel Dale (@ddale8) August 7, 2018Unrelatedly, Trump bragged to his Ohio rally that Gorsuch was number one in his class, Harvard Law School. Harvard Law School tells me that is false. https://t.co/BXURrg8VMk Daniel Dale (@ddale8) August 8, 2018Following McDowell’s on-air assessment of the President’s honesty, Twitter users had much to say on the matter as well in the following tweets.	Liberal
Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) reportedly delivered a handwritten letter from President Donald Trump to Russian President Vladimir Putin during his visit to Russia earlier this week.The Kentucky Republican tweeted on Wednesday that the letter “emphasized the importance of further engagement in various areas including countering terrorism, enhancing legislative dialogue and resuming cultural exchanges.”I was honored to deliver a letter from President Trump to President Vladimir Putins administration. The letter emphasized the importance of further engagement in various areas including countering terrorism, enhancing legislative dialogue and resuming cultural exchanges.— Senator Rand Paul (@RandPaul) August 8, 2018CNN’s Kaitlan Collins reported Trump wrote the letter to Putin “at Senator Paul’s request” to serve as an “introduction” of the Senator to Putin.The White House says Rand Paul asked Trump to give him a letter to give to Putin? At Senator Pauls request, President Trump provided a letter of introduction. In the letter, the President mentioned topics of interest that Senator Paul wanted to discuss with President Putin.— Kaitlan Collins (@kaitlancollins) August 8, 2018Collins also said sources told her the letter contained “things Paul wanted to discuss, not topics Trump asked him to bring up,” which is the opposite of what Paul insinuated in his tweet.I'm told Rand Paul asked Trump to write this letter bc he wanted to set up a meeting with Putin. The topics laid out in his tweet are things Paul wanted to discuss, not topics Trump asked him to bring up. Paul and Putin haven't met yet, and they aren't expected to right now. https://t.co/oavDm5S2pt— Kaitlan Collins (@kaitlancollins) August 8, 2018The specific substance of the letter has not been made publicly available. There are some guesses as to what it contains, though.Dear Vlad — this is my "friend" Rand.  I don't really like him.  Isn't his hair stupid?  It isn't tremendous like mine.  I feel very strongly about this. Please ignore him and make him come home and grovel at my feet again.   Your bitch, Donald— Jeff Pender (@Jeff_Pender70) August 8, 2018Dear Vlad,Do you like me?     Yes    NoWill you get my friends elected?     Yes   No pic.twitter.com/acYYiZPcal— KnowWhat EyeMeme (@KnowWhatEyeMeme) August 8, 2018https://twitter.com/COostvogels/status/1027198874765721600Twitter roasted Paul for deciding to be Trump’s “mailman.”Dear Vlad — this is my "friend" Rand.  I don't really like him.  Isn't his hair stupid?  It isn't tremendous like mine.  I feel very strongly about this. Please ignore him and make him come home and grovel at my feet again.   Your bitch, Donald— Jeff Pender (@Jeff_Pender70) August 8, 2018RandPaul should have delivered those two men wearing those Russian T-shirts because its obviously where they belong. Traitors! Its sickening! #VoteBlue2018— Donna Powers (@donnak831) August 8, 2018#TraitorRand the courier.— Dazy Jane (@dazyjane410) August 8, 2018Needless to say, people are wondering what has spurned Paul’s sudden affection for Russia.“Why Rand Paul?”What??? Why Rand Paul??? The bizarre and strange continues…— MysticalShaman (@MysticalShaman) August 8, 2018For someone who is into small government you sure like sucking up to an authoritarian regime.— Rob Anton (@RobertEAnton) August 8, 2018Vlad want to meet with Rand Paul? pic.twitter.com/PHZfM6aiZm— areyoukiddingme (@mhickey187) August 8, 2018“Suspicious” certainly fits the bill.This is beyond suspicious at this point— Ubbo Ubbo (@TheRealUbboUbbo) August 8, 2018great to see Republicans kissing Putins ring. G.O.P = Government of Putin.— GOAT78 (@GOAT78) August 8, 2018Initial question: why would Paul want to meet with Putin?— MaryAnn Neale (@neale_maryann) August 8, 2018Trump’s White House would never contort the truth. Ever.everyone with knowledge of the letter is a reliable narrator who would never distort facts, so what you've been told is probably accurate and newsworthy and there's no need to verify it with a written record— Connor Lynch (@realconnorlynch) August 8, 2018Usually this Administration is a pretty straight shooter, so I think we can all just take everybody's word on this stuff.— kj (@polirical) August 8, 2018Where is Ambassador Jon Huntsman and why is Paul doing his job?This is weird why is Paul doing this instead of Jon Huntsman?— Tony Morelli (@pookiee0758) August 8, 2018Why do we need to hand-deliver messages today? Nonetheless by a senator?— M Lawry (@MD4urMIND) August 8, 2018Why not send Putin an email instead? Oh right…I mean, you can't email them because they might get intercepted by the Russ… Hold up a minute..— Scott (@Great_Mutato) August 8, 2018In any other time, this hypothesis would sound crazy. But here we are.I'm convinced tRUMP is lining up potential GOP presidential candidates who will pardon him.— Zaza Chilvers (@ZazaChilvers) August 8, 2018Paul traveled to Moscow on Monday to meet with members of the Russian Parliament in what he claimed was an effort to continue diplomatic outreach initiatedby Trump.	Liberal
In an appearance on MSNBC’s Morning Joe Wednesday, economic analyst Steve Rattner discussed the potential “blue wave” headed for the 2018 midterm elections. He charted several factors that could contribute to a red to blue flip in Congress during voting on November 6, 2018.Overall, based on previous midterm election results dating back to 1970, things looked better for Democrats than Republicans.Voter apathy, which Rattner did not specifically address, also contributes heavily to midterm election results. More people vote during presidential election years than during the middle of a presidential term.On @Morning_Joe today I presented charts showing why the odds are high for a blue wave in the House https://t.co/3PNrKFswKJ Steven Rattner (@SteveRattner) August 8, 2018First, Rattner charted the relationship between presidential approval ratings and midterm election results in the House of Representatives. When presidential approval is lowest, the Housewhich puts all 435 members up for reelection every 2 yearsloses more seats from the President’s party.In years the opposing party holds more seats than an unpopular President, fewer seats are lost by that opposition party. An unpopular President also motivates more voters to go to the polls during midterms.At 41%, Trumps approval rating suggests the GOP will lose 60+ seats in the midterms. My @Morning_Joe chart: pic.twitter.com/gtIPfXllHp Steven Rattner (@SteveRattner) August 8, 2018Rattner then discussed the rash of retirements among Republican incumbents leading up to the next election cycle. Incumbents enjoy an 85 percent reelection rate over their challengers.Those incumbents not seeking reelection include Speaker of the House Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. Ryan announced his retirement in April.Some speculated Ryan intended to distance himself from Washington so he could run for President in 2020. But others wondered if Ryan knew he faced not getting reelected, a defeat which would damage his future in politics.At 41 Republican retirements, an historically high number Rattner stated to the best of his recollection, Democrats gain an advantage.Surge in GOP retirements has created a Dem midterm advantage. My @Morning_Joe chart: pic.twitter.com/0g7qQUHVj7 Steven Rattner (@SteveRattner) August 8, 2018Lastly, Rattner shared an analysis done by The Economist. The magazine ran 10,000 simulations based on multiple variables to try to predict the November election results.Based on their number crunching, The Economist predicted a 71 percent chance of the House going from Republican control to Democratic control during the midterms.Odds are high that Dems will regain control of the House according to @TheEconomist. My @Morning_Joe chart: pic.twitter.com/KwCyjCvpT7 Steven Rattner (@SteveRattner) August 8, 2018If Democrats retain all of their current House seats, they need to pick up only 23 more seats to flip the House of Representatives from red to blue.Some online were cautiously optimistic about Democratic chances in November in these Twitter responses to Rattner.	Liberal
Veteran Fox News foreign correspondent Conor Powell announced on Tuesday that he will be resigning from the network after nine years. Powell shared his decision in a Facebook post that has since been deleted.Fox News correspondent Conor Powell @ConormPowell resigns after 9 years with network | TheHill https://t.co/8PpFOjxV7O— Grizzly Joe  (@OccupyBawlStree) August 7, 2018He wrote:“After nearly 9 years, I have decided to resign from Fox News. Those of you who have spoken to me in recent months, you will understand why I am leaving FNC. To my many friends at the channel I wish you the best of luck.”You can see a screenshot of the deleted post below:Powell then reached out to his network for career advice.“If anyone knows of any jobs in media and journalism please contact me,” Powell continued. “Atia, Arian and I will be back in the USA in the coming days.”Powell has been based in Jerusalem and did not offer specifics as to what prompted his resignation, however, a source close to Powell told The Wrap that Powell was “uncomfortable with the direction of the news organization in recent months.”The source cited “fewer news shows, more opinion shows,less resources for reporters to report” as possible motivators for Powell’s departure.“Lots of reporters are very unhappy with directions of FNC right now,” the source said.People cheered Powell’s decision on social media.New York Times best-selling author Kurt Eichenwald said Powell is one of “many real news people there who cannot tolerate what Fox has become – the Hannity Lying State News channel.”1. Another veteran journalist, Conor Powell, has resigned from @FoxNews. People at the network say he is one of many real news people there who cannot tolerate what Fox has become – the Hannity Lying State News channel. He is not the first. He joins….— Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) August 7, 2018Eichenwald referenced military analystRalph Peters, who resigned after calling Fox News a “propaganda” network for President Donald Trump. Peters said Fox “was assaulting our constitutional order and the rule of law, while fostering corrosive and unjustified paranoia among viewers.”2…Ralph Peters, a military analyst who resigned calling Fox a "propaganda" network for Trump, and declaring Fox "is assaulting our constitutional order and the rule of law, while fostering corrosive and unjustified paranoia among viewers." So, viewers – how many people have…— Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) August 7, 2018Eichenwald urges viewers to reconsider their loyalty to Fox as seasoned journalists “walk away from jobs, abandon a paycheck, declaring this place traffics in lies, before you finally accept that Fox’s use of traditional propaganda technique – telling you everyone else is lying and only they are telling the truth – cannot withstand reason?”3…to walk away from jobs, abandon a paycheck, declaring this place traffics in lies, before you finally accept that Fox's use of traditional propaganda technique – telling you everyone else is lying and only they are telling the truth – cannot withstand reason? I know. Never.— Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) August 7, 2018“I know, never,” Eichenwald said pessimistically.Some on social media want to know what other Fox journalists have to say about what really goes on at the network.	Liberal
This morning, Representative Chris Collins, who was famously the earliest sitting member of Congress to back Donald Trump’s bid for the White House, was indicted for insider trading and arrested by the FBI.JUST IN: Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY), Trumps earliest congressional backer, arrested by the FBI on securities fraud-related charges, via @jonathan4ny— Peter Alexander (@PeterAlexander) August 8, 2018According to the indictment, Collins, along with his son Cameron, andStephen Zarsky, the father of the younger Collins’s fiancee, were indicted for securities fraud related to Australian biotech company Innate Immunotherapeutics Limited.The charges also include wire fraud and false statements.DOJ: Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) has been charged with alleged securities fraud, wire fraud, false statements. pic.twitter.com/wmPNPKx6b0— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) August 8, 2018According to a Daily Beast expose last year, Collins purchased $2.2 million of stock in the biotech firm in 2013 as part of its IPO.The IPOprospectussaid Innate would seek FDA approval of its drug to treat multiple sclerosis. More than a year later, Collins wrote into a bill language to expedite the FDAs approval process for such drugs. Four months before the bill was signed into law, Collins again purchased stock in Innate, this time as much as $1 million.A statement from Collins’s spokesman maintained his innocence:“We will answer the charges filed against Congressman Collins in Court and will mount a vigorous defense to clear his good name. It is notable that even the government does not allege that Congressman Collins traded a single share of Innate Therapeutics stock. We are confident he will be completely vindicated and exonerated.Congressman Collins will have more to say on this issue later today.”The news is breaking on Twitter this morning:Indictment relates to Australian biotech company Innate Immunotherapeutics. Rep. Chris Collins was a board member.Defendants are accused of multiple counts of securities fraud, 1 ct of wire fraud, 1 ct of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, & 1 ct each of making false statements. https://t.co/Icc2tdUSqC— Caroline O. (@RVAwonk) August 8, 2018Congressman Chris Collins charged with insider trading by my former office, SDNY https://t.co/dB47gsdhYL— Preet Bharara (@PreetBharara) August 8, 2018Congressman Chris Collins, a Republican who called for an end to the Mueller investigation in recent days, has been arrested by the FBI for insider trading. Bye boy!— Adam Parkhomenko (@AdamParkhomenko) August 8, 2018Republican Rep. Chris Collins surrendered to the FBI this morning on securities fraud-related charges, prosecutors said. https://t.co/8Y3lQJqQNc— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 8, 2018Leading some to remind everyone of the Democrat running against Collins in November, Nate McMurray:Folks, you may want to get acquainted with @Nate_McMurray, Democrat running for Congress in Chris Collins' district. https://t.co/UuUBIVyuf3— George Zornick (@gzornick) August 8, 2018Get to know  more about #NY27 candidate #NateMcMurrary, champion of the working class, down below and here: https://t.co/qDdqssOOd3 and help us unseat Trump surrogate @RepChrisCollins. https://t.co/b0kml0FQBI— Studio Moon NY (@Bohemianmoon) August 8, 2018And Twiiterwas hardly surprised to see this from a Trump ally:	Liberal
Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey provided an explanation for why Infowars personality Alex Jones’s Twitter account had not been suspended despite his proclivity for hate speech and other violent rhetoric, but his claim that Jones “hasn’t violated our rules” did not go over well.“We know thats hard for many but the reason is simple: he hasnt violated our rules. Well enforce if he does,” Dorsey wrote.We didnt suspend Alex Jones or Infowars yesterday. We know thats hard for many but the reason is simple: he hasnt violated our rules. Well enforce if he does. And well continue to promote a healthy conversational environment by ensuring tweets arent artificially amplified.— jack (@jack) August 8, 2018Dorsey conceded that Twitter had “been terrible at explaining our decisions in the past,” but insisted the company would hold Jones and his behavior to the “same standard” every account is held.Truth is weve been terrible at explaining our decisions in the past. Were fixing that. Were going to hold Jones to the same standard we hold to every account, not taking one-off actions to make us feel good in the short term, and adding fuel to new conspiracy theories.— jack (@jack) August 8, 2018Dorsey added that Twitter chooses not to “react to outside pressure” and prefers to stick to its own standards to determine which users are banned from the platform. In any event, he said, Jones’s account is of value to journalists, who can “document, validate, and refute” the information he puts out, which has often been subject to heated criticism for propagating rumors and conspiracy theories.If we succumb and simply react to outside pressure, rather than straightforward principles we enforce (and evolve) impartially regardless of political viewpoints, we become a service thats constructed by our personal views that can swing in any direction. Thats not us.— jack (@jack) August 8, 2018Accounts like Jones' can often sensationalize issues and spread unsubstantiated rumors, so its critical journalists document, validate, and refute such information directly so people can form their own opinions. This is what serves the public conversation best.— jack (@jack) August 8, 2018Dorsey’s explanation was immediately criticized by the Twitter community. Many questioned the purpose of allowing the man who claimed the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting was a hoax and that the victims of the shooting were mere “crisis actors” to retain his Twitter account, particularly when platforms like YouTube and Spotify have chosen to suspend his accounts and cull Infowars and similar content from their platforms altogether.Awful awful decision. Alex Jones has harassed families whose children were murdered to the point some have had to move over 5xs.  Twitter rules need to change. Humanity is important. Please reconsider.— Annie M (@AnnieMendelsohn) August 8, 2018He has harrassed & denigrated Sandy Hook parents, & he peddles flat out lies that can endagner people, but that doesn't violate your rules?! Only a matter of time before he says something that gets someone killed, & you'll be named in the lawsuit for allowing him a platform.— Rachel Blakeman (@RachelATC) August 8, 2018Hes done it on his TV shows and radio shows and on other platforms. His use of twitter promotes those things. Twitter should ban him.— Tom Coates (@tomcoates) August 8, 2018Jones' show accused families of dead children of being part of a government conspiracy, he threatened Mueller while mimicking a gun with his hand, and other similar gross examples of spreading hoaxes and violent rhetoric. Your rules SUCK if they don't prohibit that.— Mark Hughes (@markhughesfilms) August 8, 2018One user accused Dorsey of “pretending, like facebook, that you are not the news media & bear no responsibility,” a reference to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s similarly criticized explanations for why Facebook did not curb accounts owned by Russian operatives who ran Facebook campaigns which disseminated misleading information and sought to sow distrust for the American electoral process during the 2016 presidential election cycle.You are pretending, like facebook, that you are not the news media & bear no responsibility. This is why you are the favored platform of russian misinformation campaigns, neo nazis, misogenists, and conspiracy theorist: You grant them a voice that TV, radio, newspapers won't— Ned Pyle (@NerdPyle) August 8, 2018The parents of murdered kindergartners have had to move dozens of times because Alex Jones uses *your platform* to distribute doxing videos. And you say he hasn't voilated your terms. That's monstrous behavior from you both.— Ned Pyle (@NerdPyle) August 8, 2018Another user summed the matter up this way:I will tell you what I would tell all my friends in this situation: this is a cop out and you know better than this.— EricaJoy (@EricaJoy) August 8, 2018This is, by all rights, *your* platform. You know that this person will use your platform to cause and promote harm at scale. There is no reason to allow that.— EricaJoy (@EricaJoy) August 8, 2018Dorsey’s explanation would likely not be well received by a group of law professors who specialize in free-speech issues. In a recent court filing, the First Amendment scholars, who hailfrom institutions like Rutgers University and the University of Chicago Law School, said Jones’s content propagatedabsurd conspiracy theories and urged a federal judge considering a lawsuit against him not to allow him to cite First Amendment protections in a bid to continue to publish and distribute his material via social media platforms.False speech does not serve the public interest the way that true speech does, the scholars wrote. And indeed, there is no constitutional value in false statements of fact.The scholars also reject Jones’s notion that videos like the type he shared on Infowars merely reflect his own personal beliefs:It would allow unscrupulous news organizations to couch their language as opinion and to mask their meaning with implication and insinuation… [leaving]readers clear as to the message but avoiding all liability for defamatory remarks. This should not be allowed and, in fact, is not allowed.	Liberal
In 2005, Donald Trump testified to Congress that asbestos, the banned carcinogenic building material, could have prevented the collapse of the Twin Towers on September 11, 2001.“A lot of people say that if the World Trade Center had asbestos it wouldnt have burned down, its wouldnt have melted. OK?”he said. “A lot of people in my industry think asbestos is the greatest fireproofing material ever made.”It wasn’t the first time New York City’s most infamous real estate developer defended the use of the fire-retardant. In his 1997 bookThe Art of the Comeback, Trump wrote that asbestos was “100 percent safe, once applied,” despite overwhelming evidence correlating the chemical with thousands of cases of mesothelioma, a deadly form of lung cancer. He even spread the conspiracy theory that “the movement against asbestos was led by the mob.”Now as president, sadly, Trump’s love affair with asbestos has not waned, as he leads an under-the-radar effort to reintroduce asbestos into the American construction industry.On June 1, 2018, the Environmental Protection Agency under the direction of scandal-plagued Administrator Scott Pruitt, enacted theSignificant New Use Rule, which gave the agency the authority to evaluate the use of asbestos on a case-by-case basis. The EPA began focusing on the potential harm caused by direct contact with toxic chemicals in the workplace.“The approach means that the improper disposal of chemicals  leading to the contamination of drinking water, for instance  will often not be a factor in deciding whether to restrict or ban them,” the New York Times wrote in June. This allows the EPA to circumvent the Obama-era Toxic Substances Control Act – requiring a comprehensive evaluation of potentially harmful substances.Chelsea Clinton pounced on Trump’s push for a renewal of asbestos, using the president’s “#MAGA” slogan against him: “Make Asbestos Great Again!”Asbestos was one of the first carcinogens regulated under the Clean Air Act in 1973 (Nixon was president) and then was largely banned in 1989 (George HW Bush was president). No amount of asbestos is safe. Yet, the Trump administration is #MAGA or making asbestos great again: https://t.co/J2JF5zjb1n— Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) August 7, 2018Clinton was joined by other concerned citizens on Twitter who have grown weary of the mess Trump is leaving in his wake.I really pity our next President and all of the messes that he/she will have to clean up That person will be a true hero.— LetsBookAboutIt (@LetsBookAboutIt) August 7, 2018Let's just hope that our next president isn't our current president, Please God— Sara (@pursuingpages) August 7, 2018Yay! More mesothelioma!— bubba D (@bubbaDick) August 7, 2018And it just so happens that Russia is a leading producer of asbestos.— TheDudeAbides (@DudeAbides2017) August 7, 2018And this:   https://t.co/fUlC4YYsDB #Russia #environnement #environmentprotection— Margaret Hetherman (@hetherman) August 7, 2018Not to mention the health risks asbestos poses.OMG … WHY?  Have you met Anyone with Cancer as a result of asbestos?  Where are the Voices of dissent and outrage. Is this what we want for our children — Teresam (@m_tmgjruss) August 7, 2018My dad, he died from mesothelioma 25 years ago. It was horrible and I would not with it on anyone.— Lori Pehler (@ssftblllover) August 7, 2018The very rich do not work covering pipes with asbestos. Mesothelioma is caused by asbestos. Companies had workers handling asbestos with no protection. The manufacturers knew the dangers, but kept quiet for the all mighty dollar.— Lori Pehler (@ssftblllover) August 7, 2018“What’s next, lead paint?”What's next? Lead paint?— Deborah Rojek (@skycrw) August 7, 2018The Trump administration’s push to reintroduce asbestos into American construction projects is not merely an enormous risk to public health and an affront to science – it’s a surreptitious economic gift to Russia.	Liberal
Anderson Cooper is a highly-respected journalist, but that didn’t stop him from having a little fun at Donald Trump Jr.’s expense on Monday night.During a phone interview with Fox News host Laura Ingraham, Trump Jr.’s phone suddenly seemed to cut out, with seven seconds of silence and a brief “hello” before dropping all together. While technical issues happen from time to time on live television, the drop was impeccably timed. Ingraham had just asked Trump Jr. about the Trump Tower meeting, which his father, President Donald Trump, revealed had been an effort to get dirt from the Russians on Hillary Clinton.Anderson Cooper couldn’t help but laugh at the poor timing (around the eight minute mark), invoking Ben Stein’s portrayal of the droning teacher from the 1986 John Hughes film “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off” with his own “Bueller…? Bueller…?”A dropped phone call is likely the least of Donald Trump Jr.’s worries. As Cooper explained in the coverage leading up to the Bueller joke, Trump Jr.’s actions leading up to the Trump Tower meeting are looking more and more like conspiracy. The eldest Trump son made waves last year when he tweeted email correspondence proving that he knew the intermediaries he was meeting were acting on behalf of the Russian government. The screenshots were accompanied by what Trump Jr. said was his statement, however it was later proven that the statement was dictated by his father.Here's my statement and the full email chain pic.twitter.com/x050r5n5LQ— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 11, 2017With President Trump’s admission that the meeting was to get dirt on Hillary Clinton, Twitter hasn’t been exactly merciful to either of them.Don Jr.'s line drops out when he's asked on Laura Ingraham's radio show about conflicting statements on Trump Tower meeting. He came back on show, but wasn't asked about conflicting statements, Cohen, what his dad knew. Instead, he attacks media and probe. https://t.co/vxGDPQut5u— Manu Raju (@mkraju) August 6, 2018This is amazing. Ingraham gives Don Jr. a softball question abt Trump Tower "contradictions", he suddenly has technical difficulties and disappears. Then he reappears and the questions are forgotten. https://t.co/zlw2PMhGUv— Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) August 6, 201852 USC 30121(a)(2) outlaws what POTUS has tweeted Don Jr did in soliciting campaign help from Russian nationals. 18 USC 371 makes all who agreed to this unlawful act guilty of a felony punishable by 5 years in prison if any conspirator did anything overt to further the plot. QED.— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) August 6, 2018#Russia, if youre listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. ~@realDonaldTrumpIf its what you say, I love it. ~Don Jr#TrumpConspired#TrumpRussia https://t.co/jXCSsUo6rQ— Dr. Dena Grayson (@DrDenaGrayson) August 7, 2018Enjoy your freedom while you have it, Junior. pic.twitter.com/pIW5m6OFZm— Stacey Graves (@StaceyGraves240) August 7, 2018The botched Laura Ingraham call isn’t the first time that even technology seemed to give up on Trump officials. Just last month, President Trump found himself in a similar situation.	Liberal
Comic Amy Schumer and fellow celebrities Alexa Chung and Sophia Amoruso have started a campaign to push the resignation of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen through letters targeting Ivanka Trump.Amy Schumer has posted a "Dear Ivanka" letter calling on the first daughter to demand Kirstjen Nielsen's resignation https://t.co/2ObthzTBgD pic.twitter.com/GjDmnKeXFK— Newsweek (@Newsweek) August 7, 2018The letter, which appeared on Amoruso’s Instagram on Monday, urges the First Daughter to demand Nielsen’s resignation over the “zero tolerance” policy that resulted in thousands of migrant children being separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexican border.The letter begins by referencing Trump’s Axios interview last week in which she said family separation was a “low point” for her (note the past tense).“Dear Ivanka…”“You follow me on social media. You said family separation was a ‘low point’ for you. The low point is for the separated families.” @ivankatrumpA post shared by  Sophia Amoruso (@sophiaamoruso) on Aug 6, 2018 at 5:32pm PDT“As of now, 572 children have no been reunited” despite a court-ordered deadline to do so, Amoruso pressed. “A child has died after separation” and there have been “multiple claims of sexual and physical abuse in detention,” she added.Amoruso continued: “There have been psychotropic drugs administered to children in detention without parental consent. These abuses have occurred on your father’s watch under the leadership of Secretary Nielsen.”End these racist, inhuman, unconscionable abuses now!The letter concludes with a simple plea to Trump:We demand you call for the resignation of Secretary Nielsen!Schumer, whom Trump follows on Instagram, reposted the letter which was then ‘liked’ more than 282,000 times in less than 24 hours. @ivankatrumpA post shared by @ amyschumer on Aug 6, 2018 at 8:43pm PDTChung shared the letter Tuesday morning. I interrupt this broadcast to bring you… RG @sophiaamorusoA post shared by  Alexa (@alexachung) on Aug 7, 2018 at 2:57am PDT“That was a low point for me,” Trump told Axios last Thursday.“I feel very strongly about that, and I am very vehemently against family separation and the separation of parents and children.”	Liberal
In a tweet touting U.S. job growth underTrump, the White House today accidentally put the strength of the economy into its proper context by amplifying a graph showing 94 months of consecutive job growth, going back to 2011.When Barack Obama was president.Since President @realDonaldTrump was elected, there's been outstanding job growth in construction, manufacturing, mining, logging, and other American industries. See the numbers from the longest monthly job growth streak in U.S. history: https://t.co/H5mop38ygO— The White House (@WhiteHouse) August 7, 2018This context is usually conveniently missing from Donald Trump’s claims about the economy, of course. And if you click through to the whitehouse.gov article linked in the tweet, they once again do their best to conflate the record number of consecutive months of growth with the presidency of Donald Trump:The United States economy is continuing its longest streak of consecutive positive monthly job growth at 94 months, with 3.9 million jobs created since President Donald J. Trump was elected in November 2016.But this contradiction did not escape the eagle eyes on social media, which quickly called out the White House for its attempt to take creditfor Barack Obama’s economic legacy.94 months of job growth is pretty impressive after 18 months. https://t.co/kWdhGJuiKW— Jon Lovett (@jonlovett) August 7, 2018Thanks OBAMA!  Out of 94 months, Trump has only been in office for 19 of them. So THANKS OBAMA for the other 75 months!! https://t.co/FK6deqPg6h— Jane Woodard (@TedEBearLady) August 5, 2018Looks like that positive job growth started in 2011. Trump wasn't President then.— Veronica (@gailincleveland) August 7, 2018How did Trump manage to arrange all those years of job growth while Obama was still president?— BS-13 (@stephens_ben) August 7, 2018Per chart, most of the gains happened before he took office in 2017.  Trump inherited his wealth from father and a strong and growing economy from Obama.  Maybe a thank you note would be appropriate ?— Jerry kalin (@Jerrykalin1) August 7, 2018I especially like the work Trump did 2011-2016, before the trend started slowing for some reason…— John 11/6/2018 (@JohnDellaporta) August 7, 2018Can you now help clarify who started this upward trend, according to said chart? #ThanksObama— Shane Worthy (@ShaneNWorthy) August 7, 2018You can thank Obama for the 94 months of job growth, but here’s the report from the White House:The United States economy is continuing its longest streak of consecutive positive monthly job growth at 94 months, with 3.9 million jobs created since President Donald J. Trump was elected in November 2016.Although the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) monthly Employment Situation Report shows that nonfarm payroll employment rose by 157,000 jobs in July, falling short of expectations, the average job growth per month is 215,000 for 2018exceeding average monthly gains in 2016 (195K) and 2017 (182K)once cumulative positive revisions to May and June are included.Job growth has been strong across the board during the first 18 months of this Administration, and in July the manufacturing and professional & business services industries experienced significant gains. Since President Trump was elected, goods-producing industries (construction, manufacturing, mining, and logging) have added more than 900,000 jobs.The report continues, noting that:A separate BLS Household Survey offers more indications of a strong, growingU.S. economy. The unemployment rate edged down 0.1 percentage point (p.p.) over the month to 3.9 percent, a 0.9 p.p. decrease since January 2017. This is just the eighth time since 1970 that the unemployment rate has fallen below 4 percent, with three of these occasions occurring in 2018. The unemployment rate for Hispanics has reached another historic low, reaching 4.5 percent in July. This is the second month in row the unemployment rate for Hispanics has reached the lowest level recorded since the series began in 1973. The July unemployment rate for individuals with less than a high school diploma fell 0.4 p.p. over the month to 5.1 percent in July, the lowest level since the series began in 1992. The July unemployment rate for adult men was 3.4 percent, the lowest since December 2000.The employment-population ratio, which is an important indicator of the share of people who are working, rose by 0.1 p.p. in July to 60.5 percent. This marks its highest point since January 2009 (see figure). Since January 2017, the employment-population ratio has increased by 0.6 p.p., which is a sign that more workers are finding jobs and coming off the sidelines, which is good news for Americas economy.Given what we know about when Obama was president and when Trump entered office, it stands to reason that the current rate of U.S. job growth does not indicate, as the White House suggests, “that theAmerican labor market is thriving under the Trump Administrations pro-growth policies.”	Liberal
In 2007, Donald Trump received a star on the fabled Hollywood Walk of Famefor his role in producing the Miss Universe pageant. While The Apprentice had appeared on television by then, the far more successful incarnation of the show, The Celebrity Apprentice did not debut until 2008.But now, after repeated vandalism that either created a messlike spray paint or protest stickersor damaged or completely demolished Trump’s star, the city of West Hollywood wants the star gone. The city council voted unanimously on Monday to petition Los Angeles and the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce to remove it.And Star Wars actor and recipient of his own star on the Walk of Fame, Mark Hamill, knows just what to do with the location once Trump’s star is gone. The sci-fi icon took to Twitter Monday with his suggestion.How about replacing it with someone who really earned it? Like Carrie Fisher?”How about replacing it with someone who really earned it? Like @carrieffisher https://t.co/f1XMXanpWP Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) August 6, 2018Less than 24 hours later, Hamill’s message earned over 87,000 likes and over 21,000 retweets and over 2,300 comments. The city of West Hollywood agreed as well.Our #Resistance heroine ??: https://t.co/NdAmL9y0us CityofWestHollywood (@WeHoCity) August 6, 2018Welcome to the epicenter of the #Resistance. pic.twitter.com/5g8qjq6rSt CityofWestHollywood (@WeHoCity) January 7, 2018A writer who worked with Fisher, Paul Slansky, concurred.We spoke at the house on 1/5/17. I helped Carrie get her first and last two books from her head on to the page. We recorded a brilliant Trump rant she went off on in August 2016  message me if you want the transcript. How she would have loved being the face of the Resistance! Paul Slansky (@slansky) August 6, 2018According to Hamill, there was no love lost between Fisher and Trump.I heard her candid views on him in person… SCORCHING! ?????? Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) August 7, 2018Some could not fathom that the actress, singer, screenwriter, acclaimed author and mental health advocate did not already have a star on the Walk of Fame.Since its launch in 1960, the Hollywood Walk of Fame honored over 2,500 celebrities.She doesnt have a star? How is that possibly possible? Philippe Reines (@PhilippeReines) August 6, 2018This is shocking. Carrie has been in some of the greatest movies ever!.I thought she would already have a star. Obi-Wan Kenobi (@SirBenKenobi) August 6, 2018I thought the same, I was like wait she doesn’t have one? Definitely needs to be fixed. Leon Alexander (@ShadowThiefLeon) August 6, 2018Carrie Fisher doesn’t have a star?! pic.twitter.com/sE0tXhj4iV Batman: TAS (@TheAnimatedBat) August 6, 2018This Batman is how I feel about it. pic.twitter.com/hBaJMrBC3g Mylo Peater V (@TheNameIsMylo) August 7, 2018I can’t believe Carrie Fisher doesn’t have a star yet E. Nigma (@Nigmachangeling) August 6, 2018Carrie Fisher should have had a Star on #HollywoodWalkOfFame YEARS ago. We need to petition for #CarrieStar?? to @LAWalkOfFame I Dream Of Hamill ?? (@IDreamOfHamill) August 6, 2018In reality, anyone can apply for a starall it takes is mailing an application and a fee of $40,000 (as of 2018) to the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. In other words, if you have some connection to the entertainment industry and the cash, you too can have a star.How does Donald Trump have a star and Carrie Fisher does not? Richard Hill AKA Don Ricardo?? (@ComicOzzie58) August 7, 2018He paid for it. Carrie will have earned hers once justice is finally served and she gets hers. Chris Whitfield (@RealCWhitfield) August 7, 2018Even God approved of a star for Fisher in place of Trump’s as The Good God Above stated in the following tweet.	Liberal
Yesterday, YouTube announced it was banning Alex Jones’ Infowars channel from the social media platform. This comes on the heels of several privately owned media platforms banning his content for violations of their community standards.In response,Jones tweeted frantically, claiming that he was being censored as part of a conspiracy of “big tech” to shut down conservative voices in advance of the 2018 elections.In one particularly over the top tweet, Jones suggested we were on the path to tyranny and announced “We are all Alex Jones now.”Understand this: The censorship of Infowars just vindicates everything weve been saying. Now, who will stand against Tyranny and who will stand for free speech? Were all Alex Jones now. Alex Jones (@RealAlexJones) August 6, 2018This inspired many on Twitter to announce that they in fact were not Alex Jones.At all.FYI just to be clear we are NOT Alex Jones, ok? pic.twitter.com/Krl1taLTh7 Rogue NASA (@RogueNASA) August 7, 2018Nah bruh…. You’re Alex Jones. We’re NOT Alex Jones.Thoughts and prayers… YaBoyNYP (@yaboynyp) August 6, 2018pic.twitter.com/bE44jbcf8I Sherry B (@StudioPashnada) August 6, 2018Were not all Alex Jones. Only you are banned from Youtube, Facebook, and more. We really dont care, you do? Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) August 6, 2018Get off the cross Alex… someone else needs the wood. #IAmNotAlexJones Not today Satan (@Azanda_V) August 7, 2018No business is required to give you a platform to spew hate and misinformation. Find an outlet that enjoys your brand of douche-baggery.#IamNOTAlexJones https://t.co/7v9wAXBY3C James Dee Warren (@JamesDeeWarren) August 6, 2018Just for the record I am NOT Alex Jones. I bet there are a LOT of us who are not Alex Jones. This man does not speak for all of Twitter. I will not let him claim that he is my voice. He. Is. Not.#IamNotAlexJones https://t.co/6sZsgCii5Z Kupo?? (@MoogleKittyGirl) August 6, 2018It’s not censorship, you breached the T&Cs of private companies to spread lies and incite hatred and violence. You can still say wtf you want (somewhere else)but that doesn’t mean you get to live free from the consequences. With any luck @Twitter will follow suit #IAmNotAlexJones M L R (@Hedspaceyoga) August 7, 2018#IAmNotAlexJones and never will be. Who else is not Alex Jones? Were not Alex Jones because we are decent human beings! Cris Palomino (@crispalomino) August 7, 2018Jones’ program content contains a mixture conspiracy theories, right wing rhetoric and ads for the supplements and survivalist supplies Jones sells. That content came under fire again recently when the families of several of his targets, the children murdered at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, filed a lawsuit against him.The suffering of those families inspired a renewed push for online platforms to enforce their community guidelines and this time they responded.	Liberal
A series of late 1990’s columns from Vice President Mike Pence have resurfaced, highlighting just how discordant President Donald Trump’s actions are with the so-called morality many in the Republican party claim to champion.The columns are in reference to then-President Bill Clinton’s relationship with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky. The scandal led to Clinton’s impeachment in 1998 and thrust the sex life of President Clinton into the public sphere.Pence, a devout Christian who won’t dine alone with any woman but his wife, lambastes Clinton for lying to the public about his sexual relationship with Lewinsky.In decrying Bill Clinton, Pence inadvertently makes a case for impeaching Trump, asserting:In a day when reckless extramarital sexual activity is manifesting itself in our staggering rates of illegitimacy and divorce, now more than ever, America needs to be able to look to her First Family as role models of all that we have been and can be again.He went on to say:If the President does not resign, the Republican Congress must impeach him even if it costs them their majority because the laws of this republic charge them with the duty to so act. Absent an uncharacteristic act of selflessness by the President, it is left to the Republicans to live up to their label and defend the laws and institutions of this Republic.Twenty years later, Pence would run on the presidential ticket of a man who famously said:I moved on her like a b*tch. But I couldnt get there. And she was married. Then all of a sudden I see her, shes now got the big phony tits and everything. Shes totally changed her look…You know, Im automatically attracted to beautiful  I just start kissing them. Its like a magnet. Just kiss. I dont even wait. And when youre a star, they let you do it. You can do anything.Grab em by the p***y. You can do anything.President Donald Trump has been embroiled in multiple sexual scandals. Most recently, a recording showed the president discussing the payment of hush money to a Playboy model with whom he had a sexual relationship. His $130,000 hush payment to adult film star Stormy Daniels has been widely publicized. Both affairs are alleged to have occurred shortly after the birth of Trump’s youngest son. With the scandals plaguing the Trump administration, many are wondering why Pence hasn’t held Donald Trump to an equal standard.CAUGHT: MIKE PENCE MAKES AN AIRTIGHT CASE FOR #IMPEACHMENTCNN uncovers 1999 arguments by #MikePence that apply perfectly today. https://t.co/JBDEz2pV6b pic.twitter.com/Lqbig4PHpO— Peter Daou (@peterdaou) August 7, 2018Mike Pence, 1990s: Bill Clinton had an affair, therefore he should be impeached.Mike Pence, 2018: Trump's multiple affairs are his business and his business alone. pic.twitter.com/Xy5AmIrEPh— jordan (@JordanUhl) August 6, 2018"Throughout our history, we have seen the presidency as the repository of all of our highest hopes and ideals and values. To demand less is to do an injustice to the blood that bought our freedoms."Who said it?MIKE PENCE, in the late 1990s.https://t.co/EVzG638c3j— David Priess (@DavidPriess) August 7, 2018I assume Mike Pences apology to Bill Clinton is forthcoming. #morningjoe— Jane Doe (@proudloudlib) August 7, 2018Trump’s election and subsequent presidency has forced GOP lawmakers and voters alike to answer for their support of the president despite actions that would’ve likely destroyed other presidencies.	Liberal
Fox News legal analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano, on Monday, tore apart President Donald Trump’s defense of the infamous 2016 Trump Tower meeting, which Trump reiterated in a tweet on Sunday:Fake News reporting, a complete fabrication, that I am concerned about the meeting my wonderful son, Donald, had in Trump Tower. This was a meeting to get information on an opponent, totally legal and done all the time in politics – and it went nowhere. I did not know about it!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018To Trump, “It went nowhere” is dispositive — if no information changed hands, he would argue, therefore there was no crime.Not so says Napolitano:“If the people in Trump Tower agreed to receive dirt on Hillary from Russian persons, entities or the Russian government, it doesn’t matter if they never received it because the agreement is what is the crime & I suggest to you that is what Bob Mueller is looking at.”.@Judgenap: "If the people in Trump Tower agreed to receive dirt on Hillary from Russian persons, entities or the Russian government, it doesn't matter if they never received it because the agreement is what is the crime & I suggest to you that is what Bob Mueller is looking at." pic.twitter.com/GSs3lFRsHu— Fox News (@FoxNews) August 6, 2018Napolitano went on that there is “no such legal concept as collusion” because the word “collusion” doesn’t appear in “any federal statutes relevant to” the investigation into the Trump campaign’s connection to Russia.Napolitano said that a defense such as “collusion is not a crime and therefore nobody involved in the Trump Tower meeting committed a crime” are a “false premise,” because federal law “prohibits the receipt by people running a campaign of information or anything of value from a foreign person, entity, or government.”On Monday, Trump implied that collusion with Russia is a crime but only if Clinton did it – collusion which the president tweeted, without evidence, “was very real” between the Clinton campaign and the Russian government.Collusion with Russia was very real. Hillary Clinton and her team 100% colluded with the Russians, and so did Adam Schiff who is on tape trying to collude with what he thought was Russians to obtain compromising material on DJT. We also know that Hillary Clinton paid through….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 6, 2018“Collusion is very real with Russia, but only with Hillary and the Democrats, and we should demand a full investigation,” Trump wrote unironically.….a law firm, eventually Kremlin connected sources, to gather info on Donald Trump. Collusion is very real with Russia, but only with Hillary and the Democrats, and we should demand a full investigation. Dan Bongino on @foxandfriends  Looking forward to the new IG Report!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 6, 2018Napolitano said it doesn’t matter if Trump’s team received information or not. The intent to receive it, and the agreement to receive it, is the crime. The law “prohibits soliciting” dirt on an opponent from a foreign entity, and it “prohibits agreeing to solicit it.”The agreement is called a conspiracy.Napolitano said there are “three potential crimes” associated with the Trump Tower meeting: “soliciting the information, receiving the information, and agreeing to receive the information.”He added that the agreement itself is the crime, “not the acts the agreement contemplates.”Napolitano then summed up Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation:If the people in Trump Tower agreed to receive dirt on Hillary from Russian persons, entities or the Russian government, it doesn’t matter if they never received it because the agreement is what is the crime & I suggest to you that is what Bob Mueller is looking at.On Tuesday, Napolitano appeared onFox & Friends and said the intent of the Trump Tower meeting is “up to Bob Mueller to investigate,” though he said he believed Trump didn’t know about the meeting.Trump’s eldest son, Donald Jr., however, agreed to the June 2016 meeting after being told it was to get Russian dirt on Clinton. “If it’s what you say, I love it, especially in the summer,” Junior wrote in an email at the time.	Liberal
In a tweet over the weekend, President Donald Trump called CNN’s Don Lemon “the dumbest man on television.”Lebron James was just interviewed by the dumbest man on television, Don Lemon. He made Lebron look smart, which isnt easy to do. I like Mike!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 4, 2018Lemon did not respond to the president’s tweet right away. But last night, during his first show since the president launched his attack, he took the president to task for his history of racially charged statements, his habit of coddling white supremacists, and his tendency to undermine the free press.Donald Trump, said Lemon, “divides by race and tries to conquer decency by smearing and besmirching the truth.”As a journalist, I dont really like being the story here,” Lemon said, “but because of how important it is for each of us to stand up for what is right and what is decent, I’m going to tell you exactly how I feel starting right now.”"President Trump is trying a divide and conquer strategy. … He divides by race and tries to conquer decency by smearing and besmirching the truth and the people who fight to uphold it." – CNN's @DonLemon responds to Trump's personal attacks on him and LeBron James (@KingJames) pic.twitter.com/fhLrPBjc8S— CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) August 7, 2018Lemon, who called Trump’s comments toward him and Lebron James a “hateful, nasty swipe,” added:Unlike this president, who lashes out wildly at anyone who criticizes him, I have pretty thick skin. And LeBron James, in addition to being a brilliant black man, a superstar in his sport, and a hero to his community, is taking the high road, which is exactly where he belongs.Elsewhere, he said:The president has called a lot of people stupid. Some of those people are white. But I would just like to note that referring to African Americans as dumb is one of the oldest canards of America’s racist past and present that black people are of inferior intelligence.To support this point, he quoted a tweet from Keith Boykin, who listed the insults Trump has used to refer to people of color. Trump, for example, notoriously referred to Haiti and African countries as “shitholes” during a meeting in January. He also called Mexicans “rapists”and oftenwhile on the campaign trail. He even insisted that the Central Park Five, four African American juveniles and one Hispanic juvenile who wereconvicted of a rape and assault they did not commit, were guilty anyway, even though a convicted rapist and murderer already serving a life sentence in prison confessed to the crime and DNA evidence confirmed his guilt.In Trump's World:Obama: KenyanLeBron James: dumbDon Lemon: dumbMaxine Waters: low IQblack countries: shitholesblack athletes: SOBsBlack tenants: unwelcomeBlack workers: lazyCentral Park 5: guiltyMexicans: rapistsMuslims: terroristsIndians: fakeNazis: very fine people— Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) August 4, 2018Lemon continued: “Notice a pattern? This president constantly denigrates people of color and women, too,” before referring to more comments Trump made about California Representative Maxine Waters. He reminded viewers that Trump spent years “denying the legitimacy of America’s first black president” by propagating “birther” conspiracy theories.Let me not mince words here, Lemon said. This president traffics in racism. And is fueled by bullying. He noted that around the nation,people of color are being attacked by their fellow citizens who feel emboldened to be publicly racist, because the president is.Praise for Lemonand reaffirmation of the points he made during his broadcasthas poured in since the president’s attack.Don Lemon is a brilliant journalist & Labron James is a conscientious, smart athlete. For Trump to call them names is like an ignorant slaveholder calling Frederick Douglass dumb.— Rev. Dr. Barber (@RevDrBarber) August 6, 2018Trump racist NYC housingCentral Park 5Obama birtherMexican rapistsAfrica/ Haiti shitholePuerto Rico hurricaneMuslim banBuild the wallKhan familyCharlottesvilles very fine peopleNFL AnthemMaxine WatersDon LemonLeBron JamesNo Trump aint no racist.#TickTickTick pic.twitter.com/KfsEGUQIEE— Billy Baldwin (@BillyBaldwin) August 7, 2018This weekends vile attack on LeBron James & Don Lemon  reminds me of accusing Obama of wiretapping. Also in the mix of meanness when he called countries Shitholes & his horrible mistreatment of Puerto Rico.  Kidnapping kids of color& insulting Maxine Waters. #RampantRacist— Barbara Malmet (@B52Malmet) August 6, 2018I think @donlemon & @KingJames made @realDonaldTrump look stupid. And thats not hard to do.— Ken Olin (@kenolin1) August 7, 2018Here is the remarkable program-opening monologue by @donlemon I mentioned earlier. Furious, and cold. https://t.co/57IEjvDLnq— James Fallows (@JamesFallows) August 7, 2018The president has not responded to Lemon’s comments yet, though the likelihood that he will is high.	Liberal
The trial of former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort took a decisive turn on Monday when his former business partner — and Trump’s Deputy Campaign Manager — Rick Gates, took the stand to testify against him.Despite efforts by Manafort’s defense team to paint Gates as having swindled Manafort without his knowledge, when asked by federal prosecutors if he’d committed a crime with Paul Manafort, Gates answered in the affirmative.Rick Gates has taken the stand in the Manafort case.Prosecutor Uzo Asonye asked, "Were you involved in any criminal activity with Mr. Manafort?" Gates answered, "Yes.""Did you commit any crimes with Mr. Manafort?" Asonye said."Yes," said Gates. h/t@CharlieGileNBC— Geoff Bennett (@GeoffRBennett) August 6, 2018Gates testified that, under orders from Manafort over a number of years, he made wire transfers from offshore accounts and didn’t report them, as well as failing to file a foreign bank account record. He also admitted to stealing from Manafort and others.Gates’s testimony is crucial to the Special Counsel’s case. FederalJudge T.S. Ellis III warned the prosecutors that the bar for conviction is high, and that they wouldn’t be able to prove conspiracy if Gates didn’t take the witness stand.The testimony is making waves across social media.I have seen some cold stares in my life but watching Paul Manafort stare down his former deputy, arms crossed, as Rick Gates recounted the long list of his alleged crimes was remarkable. #ManafortTrial— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) August 6, 2018In court now: Prosecutor on Muellers team asks Rick Gates if he committed crimes with Paul Manafort.Yes, Gates says.First time a senior Trump campaign official has confessed to a crime on the stand.— Ari Melber (@AriMelber) August 6, 2018Rick Gates, who has cut a plea deal against Donald Trump, is currently on the witness stand at the Paul Manafort trial. Thats all you really need to know about how Trumps day is going.— Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) August 6, 2018Rick Gates testifies that he and Paul Manafort had 15 foreign accounts they did not report to the federal government, and knew it was illegal. He said he did not submit the required forms "at Mr. Manafort's direction."— David P Gelles (@gelles) August 6, 2018Rick Gates, who just confessed under oath to knowingly committing dozens of crimes with Paul Manafort, was the #2 ranking official in the Trump campaign. He ran the day to day operations. After Trump was elected he was on the inaugural committee. Helped form Trump's PAC.— Shaun King (@shaunking) August 6, 2018Unlike Gates, Paul Manafort pleaded “not guilty” last year to numerous charges of conspiracy and fraud. Gates’s words in court on Monday are the latest in what’s been a tempestuous road for Manafort since his indictment in October 2017.	Liberal
The Carr Fire as well as other wildfires burning throughout California have taken the lives of two firefighters, killed five civilians, burned over 1,000 homes and forced thousands to evacuate. Until this weekend, President Donald Trump remained silent on the tragedy unfolding on the west coast.Sunday evening, Trump posted his first tweet about the wildfires. Instead of encouraging words for the people displaced, the families of those who died or the fire service fighting the fires, the President took the opportunity to attack California environmental laws. The since deleted, then reposted tweet stated:California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!”The revised version, posted Monday evening, remains largely the same except an “s” added to the word “amount” and the word “from” was added.California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amounts of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire from spreading! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 6, 2018Trump followed up his Sunday tweet with one Monday morning. This one targeted California Governor Jerry Brown specifically. And made less sense than the first one to outside observers.Governor Jerry Brown must allow the Free Flow of the vast amounts of water coming from the North and foolishly being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Can be used for fires, farming and everything else. Think of California with plenty of Water – Nice! Fast Federal govt. approvals. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 6, 2018But the one group not addressed in Trump’s Twitter posts, the California Fire Service, refuted the President’s claims..@CAL_FIRE says it has “no idea” what Trump’s talking about in regards to “bad environmental laws” making California’s fires worse. “We have plenty of water for the firefight. The Mendocino complex is next to Clear Lake and the Carr fire has the Whiskeytown Lake and Lake Shasta” https://t.co/Gy0uNx3xiK Brianna Sacks (@bri_sacks) August 6, 2018Trump blames California environmental laws for wildfires. Not true, say fire officials. We have plenty of water to fight these wildfires, but lets be clear: Its our changing climate that is leading to more severe and destructive fires,” said one. https://t.co/NhG6277JW9 pic.twitter.com/S57duEFJgh Paul Rogers (@PaulRogersSJMN) August 6, 2018.@CAL_FIRE, again, responding to Trump’s 2nd tweet about California diverting water to Pacific Ocean, hampering firefighting efforts: WE HAVE WATER-NOT THE ISSUE“We have the ability to pull water from wherever we need using aircrafts-no idea where he’s getting his information” Brianna Sacks (@bri_sacks) August 6, 2018So what is Trump talking about and why?For those unfamiliar with the internal politics of California, Trump refers to an ongoing battle between farmers and timber operations versus those who make their money off the environmental tourism trade as well as those who just want to protect natural resources.As one Twitter user aptly summed up in their sarcastic responsejoking that the “deep state” and California Democratic Representative Nancy Pelosi keep farmers from getting the water they want while hinting their contribution to the overall California economy fails to warrant it.Yes, this has been a long-term theme in the Valley, instead of getting 3/4 of California’s water despite producing 3% of the GDP, the farmers want all of it, and only Deep State machinations by Pelosi prevent their God-given right to dump the Colorado into a desert. Matt Uelmen (@uelmendrado) August 6, 2018Farmers want to divert more water out of the rivers rafters and kayakers use and timber operations want to clear cut the trees in areas popular among campers and hikers. But tourism pulls in over $120 billion dollars annually while agriculture brings only an estimated third of that total.There is no love lost between Trump and Governor Brown. The President has attacked Brown and the state he leads several times on Twitter. Meanwhile, Brown posted only these messages on Twitter over the last several days.Our thoughts are with the loved ones of the 2 firefighters we lost fighting the #CarrFire & with the many Californians who have lost their homes. We are with you.The @Cal_OES State Operations Center is activated to its highest level. Please follow all evacuation orders. https://t.co/cZIYG0qHQA Jerry Brown (@JerryBrownGov) July 27, 2018I want to personally thank all of the firefighters, emergency managers, first responders, national guard members, law enforcement officers and volunteers working around the clock to fight these fires and help our communities recover. pic.twitter.com/P4MYvtFsgr Jerry Brown (@JerryBrownGov) August 2, 2018Grateful for all of the firefighters and emergency responders. You make California proud. pic.twitter.com/DcKmBYeBSS Jerry Brown (@JerryBrownGov) August 5, 2018Brown’s one (re)tweet that mentioned the President only announced a request for federal aid.??After declaring a State of Emergency for Shasta County yesterday, @JerryBrownGov requests Presidential Emergency Declaration for Direct Federal Assistance for #CarrFire https://t.co/K3dTaVTUOR pic.twitter.com/cCThH3IfF8 Gov. Brown Press Office (@GovPressOffice) July 27, 2018However when asked about the impact of climate change on the fires during a press conference last week, Brown stated the “predictions that I see, the more serious predictions of warming and fires to occur later in the century, 2040 or 2050, they’re now occurring in real time.”You can expect thatunfortunatelyto continue intensifying in California and throughout the Southwest.”People on Twitter shared reactions to Trump’s tweets regarding the fires as the following tweets show.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s efforts to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program was dealt a blow on Friday when a federal judge ordered the administration to fully restore the program designed to prevent the deportation of children of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States by their parents.A Washington, D.C.-based federal judge ruled on Friday that the Trump administration must fully restore DACA, saying the government's rationale for dropping it is inadequate. https://t.co/zlPXrKJLte— NPR (@NPR) August 6, 2018In April, U.S. District Judge John Bates gave the Department of Homeland Security 90 days “to better explain its view that DACA is unlawful.” Bates said Friday the government’sreasoning for ending DACA was “inadequately explained,” adding that the Trump administration “cannot rely on the reasons it previously gave for DACAs rescission, because the Court has already rejected them.”Bates concluded in his ruling:For the foregoing reasons, the Court again concludes that DHSs September 2017 decision to rescind the DACA program, as now explained in the Duke and Nielsen Memos, was both subject to judicial review and arbitrary and capricious.Bates continued:The Court has already once given DHS the opportunity to remedy these deficiencieseither by providing a coherent explanation of its legal opinion or by reissuing its decision for bona fide policy reasons that would preclude judicial reviewso it will not do so again.“A conclusory assertion that a prior policy is illegal, accompanied by a hodgepodge of illogical or post hoc policy assertions, simply will not do,” Bates wrote. “The Court, therefore, reaffirms its conclusion that DACAs rescission was unlawful and must be set aside.”Bates’ ruling is the thirdderailing the Trump administration’s crusade againstDACA since the president decided to end the program in September 2017. DHS has 20 days to appeal the ruling before DACA must be fully restored, Bates ruled.On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions issued a statement trashing the court’s decision.“We strongly disagree with the district courts decision on Friday in the DACA case,” Sessions said.The executive branch’s authority to simply rescind a policy, established only by a letter from the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, is clearly established. The Department of Justice will take every lawful measure to vindicate the Department of Homeland Security’s lawful recission of DACA.NEW: Attorney General Sessions: "We strongly disagree with the district courts decision on Friday," in which a federal judge ruled the Trump administration must fully restore DACA. https://t.co/UnxQ1q50pZ pic.twitter.com/MEk1ZCJBZE— ABC News (@ABC) August 6, 2018“We have recently witnessed a number of decisions in which courts have improperly used judicial power to steer, enjoin, modify, and direct executive policy,” Sessions added.Supporters of DACA responded to Sessions on Twitter, offering their“thoughts and prayers” to the administration.	Liberal
Karl RoveRepublican consultant and frequent policy advisorknows his way around the political game. The man credited with the rise of George W. Bush, President Bush himself referred to Rove as “The Architect” in his 2004 reelection victory speech.Rove became Senior Advisor and Deputy Chief of Staff to Bush at the White House as well as head of the Office of Political Affairs, the Office of Public Liaison and the White House Office of Strategic Initiatives. Needless to say, Karl Rove knows all about political rhetoric.On Monday, “The Architect” shared some of his expert advice with the current resident of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, President Donald Trump, on the Fox News program Americas Newsroom.Rove stated:I think the president would be well-advised to tone down the rhetoric.”Watch the interview here.The comment came after America’s Newsroom host Sandra Smith shared a weekend Twitter post from the President. In it Trump again refers to the media as the “enemy of the people.”The Fake News hates me saying that they are the Enemy of the People only because they know its TRUE. I am providing a great service by explaining this to the American People.”Trump goes on to claim the media causes division and even war. Then the President describes them as “very dangerous” and “sick!”.The Fake News hates me saying that they are the Enemy of the People only because they know its TRUE. I am providing a great service by explaining this to the American People. They purposely cause great division & distrust. They can also cause War! They are very dangerous & sick! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018Rove began his response by stating:Look I think this is over the top. Every President has a problem with the media.”“I was in the White House for seven years and I didnt like the coverage they gave George W. Bush,” Rove continued, “particularly the liberal New York Times, but I think the President is better if he makes his case on a case-by-case basis.That is to say when they say something that is wrong and then he respectfully disagrees with them. I think calling names is not helpful to our country from any side.”Rove took specific exception to the President’s repeated use of a favorite phrase of dictators throughout the 20th century when referring to anyone that criticized them.Calling them the enemy of the people that just grates on me. I grew up during the time of the Cold War.”That is a phrase that was used by Stalin against the enemies of the communist regime. I think the president would be well advised to tone down the rhetoric.”Seeming to speak directly to the President, Rove stated emphatically:Your audience is not the media. Your audience is not the hardcore base that loves you.”“There are people,” Rove explained, “that go to those rallies and when he says ‘the fake news’ and ‘the media’ and ‘they’re terrible’ and points at them, they scream and yell, but to win the election this fall he’s got to win the people who are up for grabs in this election.”The longtime Republican adviser then ran through some poll numbers, provided by Fox News.	Liberal
YouTube announced on Monday that it is removing conspiracytheorist and alt-right darling Alex Jones’s channel, leaving users who click on his videos with a message:“This account has been terminated for violating YouTube’s Community Guidelines.”JUST IN: YouTube permanently bans Alex Jones https://t.co/GvpOXqBnX3 pic.twitter.com/VNv8fEWU5p— The Hill (@thehill) August 6, 2018“When users violate these policies repeatedly, like our policies against hate speech and harassment or our terms prohibiting circumvention of our enforcement measures, we terminate their accounts,” a YouTube spokesperson said in a statement.YouTube said Jones was warned multiple times about its policies but continued to peddle what YouTube considers child endangerment and hate speech.Jones had previously been placed on a 90-day moratorium but continued to promote his page on other posts, prompting YouTube to ban him entirely.When users violate these policies repeatedly, like our policies against hate speech and harassment or our terms prohibiting circumvention of our enforcement measures, we terminate their accounts.Jones responded to YouTube’s ban on Monday via Twitter, which has not (yet) taken any public actions against him.Jones called the ban “communist censorship” and launched into a 4-minute long tantrum about free speech, positioning himself — and the conservative movement — as the victim.America Has Been Sold Out To Communist Censorship pic.twitter.com/nJllgbbrIG— Alex Jones (@RealAlexJones) August 6, 2018And he proceeded to spread conspiracy theories about the “real reason” he was banned from YouTube as well as Apple, Facebook and Spotify:The Real Reason Apple, Facebook, Spotify, And YouTube Banned Infowars pic.twitter.com/8d1Kag6Qay— Alex Jones (@RealAlexJones) August 6, 2018Jones is claiming that the ban is part of a coordinated effort by “Big Tech” to retaliate against Jones for helping to elect Donald Trump president. So by banning InfoWars, Jones claims that these tech companies are engaging in “election meddling” ahead of the midterm elections.Of course, Jones is still free to say whatever he wants without fear of persecution from the United States government, however, private media companies are under no obligation to give him a digital mountaintop from which he can spew his destructive rhetoric.The government didnt force him off the internet, private companies who have terms of service did. Im a diehard first amendment guy, but it protects the government from limiting speech, not a private entity.— Andrew Franks (@Andy_Franks) August 6, 2018Followers on Twitter laughed in Jones’s face.Literally.HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHABAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAFUCK YOU.— LibTARDIS (@dinnerbeans) August 6, 2018HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA— Tahoe Jeff (@Tahoe_Jeff) August 6, 2018Alex Jones today. Lol pic.twitter.com/wxAHUVAEhC— QUIT FACEBOOK (@SkeptiCatz) August 6, 2018Many people are thrilled to see the 9-11 truther get his comeuppance. pic.twitter.com/o0EVQuQVd3— MyTweetsK*llFascists (A Woody Guthrie Reference) (@Humancipator35) August 6, 2018Thoughts & Prayers. You violated the rules of the website that you agreed to. Which is not censorship & doesn't fall under first amendment rulings. A private corporation is allowed to set rules that you agreed to, you violated those rules & that's why your accounts are gone.— #CoulsonLives #ImpeachTrump (@WWEFan0891) August 6, 2018 pic.twitter.com/s0cvoXH1Pe— paolo (@chopmunky) August 6, 2018You suck. Your work sucks. Someone called you on it. Deal with it.— The Fatman (@FrankRabey) August 6, 2018 pic.twitter.com/79tgnHBwRd— Aimee DeMaio (@AimeeDemaio) August 6, 2018BWAAAAAAAA!  You want some cheese with that Whine Alex?  #AlexJonesBankruptcyWatch— LiberalJarhead (@Secret_Cheech) August 6, 2018Some users said Jones was a “crisis actor,” which is a term Jones assigns to victims of tragedies.Crisis actor.— James B Hyatt (@jamesbhyatt) August 6, 2018Fake news.  Alex Jones is a crisis actor and InfoWars is just a deep-state conspiracy.  If you ever believed it was real, it was just because of too much fluoride in the chicken nuggets.— BruschettaNights (@GoingToAlpha) August 6, 2018How long until Twitter follows suit?How soon till he gets taken down here? Place your bets people. pic.twitter.com/VsC4XPAltQ— Pat Rex 11 (@Pat_Rex11) August 6, 2018https://twitter.com/DeezThoughtsAre/status/1026518453140766722Jones is having a really bad Monday. Facebook removed his channel from their platforms over what they consider hate speech emanating from his broadcasts. Over the weekend, Google, Apple, and Spotify tossed Jones from their platforms as well.	Liberal
Michelle Obama is marking the 53rd anniversary of the Voting Rights Act by announcing a week of action dedicated to registering voters ahead of November’s midterm elections.The Voting Rights Act has strengthened American democracy, the former First Lady wrote in a message on Twitter, “But the work is far from finished.”The Voting Rights Act makes our democracy stronger, giving every American, from all walks of life, the right to vote. But the work is far from finished. Join me and @WhenWeAllVote for a Week of Action to get folks registered and ready to spread the word. https://t.co/C4obhrVHLp https://t.co/aAb1dS80Yv— Michelle Obama (@MichelleObama) August 6, 2018The When We All Vote Week of Action will be held Sept. 22-29. Members of the initiative will travel across the country to register voters, and flagship events will be held in at least 12 cities, including Los Angeles, New York, Detroit, Chicago, and Miami. The group has several co-chairs, includingForrest Gump actor Tom Hanks,Hamilton composer Lin-Manuel Miranda, singer Janelle Monae, country music power couple Faith Hill and Tim McGraw, and Houston Rockets point guard Chris Paul.Those who would like to participate in the Week of Action can start by signing up HERE.“With so much at stake in our country, sitting on the sidelines isn’t an option,” Obama said in an email to supporters.In a press release last month, she elaborated further:Voting is the only way to ensure that our values and priorities are represented in the halls of power. And it’s not enough to just vote for president every four years. We all have to vote in every single election: for mayor, governor, school board, state legislature and Congress. The leaders we elect to these offices help determine just about every aspect of our lives and our democracy. Sothe future of our families, our communities and our country belongs to those of us who show up, cast our votes, and make our voices heard.Obama received nearly unanimous praise, and others joined her call, too.Thank you for continuing to fight for us, Mrs. Obama. We miss you and your husband.https://t.co/ZN6IRLjiXJ— Jon Zal (@OfficialJonZal) August 6, 2018PLEASE verify that you are registered to vote.A LOT of purging going on.Seriously.    #VoteBlue— kim dunn (@kmjdu) August 6, 2018Let's honor Mrs. Obama by V.O.T.I.N.G!  that your registration is current at https://t.co/qE1g57fG93. Then   & #VoteBlue — Rachel Maria (@rachel_maria65) August 6, 2018Absolutely we must seek those who didn't vote in 2016. Their vote, as all votes matter/count and do make a difference.— Karen Sather (@swirlgal01) August 6, 2018Voting is power. Democracy is freedom we can all take for granted. Vote this November. Thank you @MichelleObama for your love of country. Can I just say I miss you both?— Ray Julian Torres (@RayJulianTorres) August 6, 2018As a high school teacher, I will make it my mission to encourage every single student who is 18 to register to vote and to vote. Thank you for your leadership in this vital part of our democracy. We need you. — Lesley (@moffatmom) August 6, 2018The former First Lady has a long history of championing voting rights, and she has in the past made headlines for her remarks on how inaction and election fatigue contributed to President Donald Trump’s win in 2016.In April, Mrs. Obamaemployed a parenting metaphor to describe the Trump administration while speaking at the Simmons Leadership Conference in Boston. She likened her husbands presidency tohaving the good parent at home; the Trump administration, she said, is the total opposite.	Liberal
Last week, First Daughter and presidential advisor Ivanka Trump gave an interview with Axios in which she expressed her opposition to her father’s policy of separating migrant families at the U.S.-Mexican border.USA Today opinion columnist Raul Reyes tore apart Trump’s feigned dissent in a brutal Op-Ed on Monday, saying Trump’s failure to pressure President Donald Trump to end the “zero tolerance” policy “reveals her as a profile in cowardice.”.@usatodayopinion: Ivanka Trump's empty words on immigration prove she's a coward. https://t.co/tYYDDWJz2O— USA TODAY (@USATODAY) August 6, 2018“I felt very strongly about that,and I am veryvehemently against family separation and the separation of parents and children,” Trump told Axioslast Thursday. “I think immigration is incredibly complex as a topic, illegal immigration is incredibly complicated.”Ivanka Trump on family separation: "I am very vehemently against family separation and the separation of parents and children." #Axios360 pic.twitter.com/Qi5UhbAaN7— Axios (@axios) August 2, 2018Yes, we know, Reyes wrote, because beginning in May, all undocumented immigrants, including asylum-seekers, would be criminally prosecuted for attempting to enter the United States. This resulted in thousands of families getting ripped apart, and despite court orders to reunite children with their parents, there are still hundreds of kids still waiting to be given back to their parents.Ivanka doesnt care.  Melania was probably borrowing Ivankas I dont give a fuck jacket when she visited the children at the boarder.  They couldnt care less— Elizabeth (@rasincanegirl) August 6, 2018Reyes said Trump referring to family separation as a “low point” for herself shows how “tone deaf” she is. “Vulnerable children have been irreparably traumatized, wrenched away from their moms and dads, placed in cages under nightmarish conditions  and it was hard for Ivanka?” Reyes asked.This tone deafness was amplified in two Twitters posts – one in May,when Trump posted a picture of herself and her son, and in June when Trump thanked her father for issuing an executive order ending family separation.My ! #SundayMorning pic.twitter.com/CN5iXutE5Q— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) May 27, 2018Thank you @POTUS for taking critical action ending family separation at our border. Congress must now act + find a lasting solution that is consistent with our shared values;the same values that so many come here seeking as they endeavor to create a better life for their families— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) June 20, 2018The problem with this, Reyes opined, is that Trump thanked the president for ending a policy he unilaterally started.In her Axios interview, Trump said: “We have to be very careful about incentivizing behavior that puts children at risk of being trafficked, at risk of entering this country with coyotes, or making an incredibly dangerous journey alone.”It's amazing… So many people keep looking to Ivanka to provide some glimmer of morality in the Trump administration.  Folks… she's Trump's daughter. She works in Trump's white House. She profits from Trump's businesses. She married Jared Kushner. Wake up and smell the coffee!— Greg Mic (@GregMic1) August 6, 2018Reyes points out that these comments veer “awfully close to blaming migrant parents for family separation.” He added that the “boogeyman” is not asylum-seeking immigrants and their children, but rather “a president who has no compassion for Central Americans fleeing for their lives.”	Liberal
In United States politics, voter apathy sometimes decides elections more than voter turnout. In the 2014 midterms, the lowest voter turnout since 1942 led to control of the House and Senate going to the GOP.Midterm elections, those falling in the years between presidential elections, always see lower counts at the polls. But voter apathy in 2014 reached new levels.Nationwide voter turnout in 2014 totaled just 36.4 percent, a drop of 40.9 percent since the 2010 midterms. But according to the latest numbers from the Pew Research Center, the 2018 midtermsslated for Tuesday, November 6, 2018look to be a different story.Turnout has surged in the 31 states that already have held their congressional primaries  particularly among Democrats. https://t.co/JdXq3eJyKR pic.twitter.com/3YKIov8ngK Pew Research Fact Tank (@FactTank) July 31, 2018The compelling reasons drawing people to the polls this year over 2014? President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress.Unfortunately for both, voters do not appear headed to the polls to support them. So far through primary season, polling places drew more Democrats than Republicans.Analyzing poll numbers through June 2018, Pew found 13.6 million people voted in Democratic House primaries. This compares to only 7.4 million in 2014. That translates to an 84 percent increase.On the Republican side, 10.7 million voters turned out for GOP House primaries, compared to 8.6 million in 2014. While it represents an increase, it works out to only 24 percent.However, the GOP holds more incumbent seats in Congress. That fact alters the impact of lower Republican primary turnout slightly, but not enough.And seats in uncontested races still saw higher Democratic numbers going to the polls.In Iowas 2nd district, the Democrat and Republican both ran unopposed, but the Democratic primary drew 27,000 more voters than in 2014, while Republican turnout dropped by more than 8,000 voters.152% increase in voter turnout for the Dems in Iowa in 2018 primaries. The reason – Mainly based on tarrifs and trade war Trump started. I think the American people finally get how toxic Trump is. He has been and will always be a loser and a criminal. Judy (@ExpatMerican) August 5, 2018While it is way too early for Democrats to declare victory, the numbers clearly indicate higher engagement by Democratic voters over their GOP counterparts. But primaries and general elections are two different things.Will Democrats sustain enthusiasm going into November? Or will there be a repeat of 2016 where Democrats stayed only long enough to support their candidate then stayed away from the general election?Democratic presidential primaries and caucuses drew record numbers in 2016. Those numbers failed to sustain all the way to November costing Democrats not just the White House, but also Congress.OECD. Highest voter turnout in most recent natl election1 *Belgium 87% of voting-age population 2 Sweden 83% 3 Denmark 80% 4 *Australia 79% 5 S Korea 78% 6 Netherlands 77% 7 Israel 76.1% 8 New Zealand 76% 9 Finland 73% 10 Hungary 72%US #26 w/ 55.7%*Compulsory voting -Pew ian bremmer (@ianbremmer) May 21, 2018Voter turnout in the 2016 presidential election, despite the contentiousness of the race, failed to break records on percentage of voters.And the United States still didn’t come close to the voting numbers from other first world countries.The U.S. last hit comparable numbers during a presidential race in the 1800s when 83 percent of voters went to the polls over Rutherford Hayes and Samuel Tilden. Recent years show a steady hover between 50 to 60 percent voter engagement.If only about 60 percent of voters will show up to decide on the presidency, lower numbers when the fate of Congress is on the line are assured. People online are rightfully concerned about voter apathy and expressed it after the Pew numbers were released.	Liberal
An early-morning tweet from President Donald Trump on Sunday is contradicting a statement he dictated on behalf of his son, Donald Trump Jr., last year regarding the infamous Trump Tower meeting between high-ranking members of the Trump campaign and Russian government liaisons.A statement dictated by the President but released in Donald Trump Jr.’s name insisted that the topic discussed between Don Jr., Russian lawyerNatalia Veselnitskaya, Trump campaign advisor Jared Kushner and others was primarily Russian adoption.Trump’s tweet this morning directly contradicts that story.Fake News reporting, a complete fabrication, that I am concerned about the meeting my wonderful son, Donald, had in Trump Tower. This was a meeting to get information on an opponent, totally legal and done all the time in politics – and it went nowhere. I did not know about it!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2018This tweet does line up more closely with uncovered email correspondence between Trump Jr. and Russian intermediaries. When promised dirt on Hillary Clinton from the Russian team, Trump Jr. responded: “If it’s what you say I love it especially later in the summer.”The president’s tweet is the most forthright statement yet on the motivations of the meeting, which is being scrutinized by Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his team as evidence of possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign.Analysts on Twitter leaped to point this out.The Russians offered damaging info on your opponent. Your campaign accepted. And the Russians delivered.You then misled the country about the purpose of the Trump Tower meeting when it became public.Now you say you didnt know in advance. None of this is normal or credible. https://t.co/AEDYiIbXyY— Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) August 5, 2018Your lede:President Trump today confessed that his son, son-in-law, and campaign chair met in June 2016 with Russian agents in hope of obtaining Russian intelligence to sway the 2016 election. Trump – who denies advance knowledge of the meeting – defends it as "totally legal."— David Frum (@davidfrum) August 5, 2018KEY QUESTION: If there was no underlying wrongdoing why did Trump lie TO HIS OWN LAWYER about his role in covering up the true purpose of the key event, the June 2016 meeting in Trump Tower— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 5, 2018Trump fails to understand that the very meeting he is acknowledging is collusion  or conspiracy, if you will  to break campaign-finance laws. Insisting that it is legal to get dirt from a foreign national is politically and morally offensive  https://t.co/9bEWFutU8M— Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) August 5, 2018The “totally legal” aspect of the tweet falls in lockstep with the latest spin in an ever-changing narrative put forth by the Trump administration.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has often claimed that millions voted illegally in the 2016 presidential election. But in a letteraddressed to Vice President Mike Pence, who chairedthe now-defunct committee, and Kris Kobach (the commission’s vice chair), former commission member and current Secretary of State of Maine, Matthew Dunlap, stated that the president’s now dismantled voter fraud commission uncovered no evidence to prove Trump’s dubious claim.JUST IN: Matt Dunlap, member of Trumps former voter fraud commission, publishes trove of records, finds zero evidence of mass voter fraud, says claims from White House were, in fact, false."His letter to WH: https://t.co/nok74aEZFRThe documents: https://t.co/sasj7s7ycT pic.twitter.com/J2epPfBVMB— Dominic Holden (@dominicholden) August 3, 2018“I joined the Commission out of a sense of duty as a citizen and as a Secretary of State,” Dunlap wrote. “The integrity of our elections, the public’s faith in the same, and the ability of citizens to exercise their right to vote, are critical to our democracy. I also joined the Commission in good faith and with optimism that its members would conduct their inquiry without bias or preordained conclusions.”That’s not quite how things went, he added:Unfortunately, my experience on the Commission quickly caused me concern that its purpose was not to pursue the truth but rather to provide an official imprimatur of legitimacy on President Trumps assertions that millions of illegal votes were cast during the 2016 election and to pave the way for policy changes designed to undermine the right to vote.Surprisingly, I and other commissioners were excluded from Commission deliberations and activities. I had little to no say in when or what or why we discussed any matter. It quickly became apparent that a small, select number of commissioners were quite active, selecting witnesses for public meetings and formulating the Commission’s agenda. The message was clear: dissenting or even questioning voices were unwelcome.Dunlap further calls out his fellow commission members for their “troubling bias”:That the Commission predicted it would find widespread evidence of fraud actually reveals a troubling bias. While individual cases of improper or fraudulent voting occur infrequently, the instances of which I am aware do not provide any basis to extrapolate widespread or systemic problems. The plural of anecdote is not data.Dunlap also acknowledges that not everyone will “accept” his findings. He says he figured the best tactic to employ would be complete transparency, the opposite of what the commission exhibited:I do not expect the public simply to accept my conclusions. I am, after all, attempting to prove a negative. There is no single document that reveals there is no widespread voter fraud. Instead, I relyon the lack of any evidence in the totality of what I have reviewed. Accordingly, after reviewing the material, I have concluded that my only recourse is to publish all of the documents made available to me, so Americans can conclude for themselves that evidence to support the statements of Vice Chair Kobach and the White House regarding the purported preliminary findings of the Commission does not exist.Dunlap filed a lawsuit against the commission in November 2017, NBC notes, “in an effort to gain access to materials and documentation he felt was being kept from him and other members of the committee.” His lawsuit alleged that Pence and Kobach had violated the Federal Advisory Committee Act), which has special emphasis on open meetings.At the time he filed the lawsuit, Dunlap said:Since the Sept. 12 meeting, I have received no correspondence from the commission other than to acknowledge receipt of my information request. Clearly, there is information about this commission being created and discussed, but I have no access to that information and it has not been provided upon request.My goal in filing this lawsuit is to bring the commission into full compliance with FACA, which would allow me and all of my fellow commissioners to fulfill our roles as full, participating members and provide a meaningful report to the President upon concluding our work.Many praised Dunlap, lauding his release of the documentation as a victory against the blatant lies the president uses to galvanize his base.“The documents confirm what we knew all along: This was all a sham to spread the myth of voter fraud,” the American Civil Liberties Union said.Trump's election commission lacked transparency so much so that its own member had to sue it to get access to records.The documents confirm what we knew all along: This was all a sham to spread the myth of voter fraud. https://t.co/sQr5gvutxz— ACLU (@ACLU) August 4, 2018Others also weighed in:Remember the presidential commission on voter fraud? One member says it was extraordinarily opaque and its mission was to prove Trumps made-up claims that 3 million to 5 million people voted illegally in 2016. It found no such evidence. https://t.co/7PpuKc7wph— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) August 4, 2018Another Trump conspiracy theory shot down.  https://t.co/vMEDsmmmKY— Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) August 3, 2018Trump set up a voter fraud commission to try to legitimate his lie that there were 3 million fraudulent votes cast in 2016 so he actually won the popular vote. Instead they found that claim was unsubstantiated and Trumps process was biased.https://t.co/ylwvNfhjwS— Jonathan Riley (@JonRiley7) August 5, 2018What a shock. Trump's voter fraud commission, as we know, never found the alleged fraud it was seeking & apparently had a bias towards attempting to confirm Trump's lies.The GOP will try to suppress the vote. Don't let them. Massive turnout is the key.https://t.co/2n8PB86aAi— Tony Stark 2018  (@1IronMan2018) August 5, 2018Like Ive said before, there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud–and it turns out the Presidents commission agreed– but there is lots of evidence of foreign attempts to hack into our election infrastructure. https://t.co/eTINY8mApt— Amy Klobuchar (@amyklobuchar) August 4, 2018The president has not commented on this newsat least not yet.	Liberal
Eric Trump, the second son of President Donald Trump and Vice President of the Trump Organization, accused Jeff Bezos and the Washington Post of “ugly and relenting” attacks on his family and their “great company” in a Twitter rant Friday afternoon.“The level of hatred and the willingness to disparage my family and our great company has never been so ugly and unrelenting as I have seen recently by the @WashingtonPost,” Trump griped. “It is clearly coming from the top with one motivation in mind. @JeffBezos.”Trump is asserting that Bezos, the world’s wealthiest individual and owner of Amazon and the Washington Post, is using his business empire as his own personal means of retaliation against the Trump family.Retaliation against what,however, remains elusive, as does any evidence of an agenda.Trump’s tweet is part of a larger pattern of attacks on Bezos and his businesses by the president, who routinely chides WaPo as “fake news” and frequently targets the media outlet for supposed biased reporting against him.Perhaps there’s some resentment over Bezos’ enormous wealth, which topped a staggering $150billion in June. President Trump’s official net worth is unknown because he has refused to release his tax returns.Bezos could buy every trump in history with last weeks earnings.—  (@killer_mike17) August 3, 2018In June, the president said: “The Amazon Washington Post has gone crazy against me…”The Amazon Washington Post has gone crazy against me ever since they lost the Internet Tax Case in the U.S. Supreme Court two months ago. Next up is the U.S. Post Office which they use, at a fraction of real cost, as their delivery boy for a BIG percentage of their packages….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2018…and then accused the paper of being “nothing more than an expensive (the paper loses a fortune) lobbyist for Amazon.”….In my opinion the Washington Post is nothing more than an expensive (the paper loses a fortune) lobbyist for Amazon. Is it used as protection against antitrust claims which many feel should be brought?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2018The president has also whined that WaPo does “nothing but write bad stories even on very positive achievements – and they will never change!”…and the Amazon Washington Post do nothing but write bad stories even on very positive achievements – and they will never change!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2018A few days later, the president bemoaned the Post again, this time regarding anonymous sources, which are an essential tool for journalists.“TheWashington Postis constantly quoting ‘anonymous sources’ that do not exist. Rarely do they use the name of anyone because there is no one to give them the kind of negative quote that they are looking for. They are a disgrace to journalism but then again, so are many others!”The Washington Post is constantly quoting anonymous sources that do not exist. Rarely do they use the name of anyone because there is no one to give them the kind of negative quote that they are looking for. They are a disgrace to journalism but then again, so are many others!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 3, 2018You can peruse all of the president’s tweets here.Trump’s lunchtime Twitter tantrum was savagely trolled by people who are tired of the Trumps trying to portray themselves as victims.	Liberal
It’s well-documented by now that the Trump administration didn’t hesitate to separate immigrant children from their families, so it shouldn’t be surprising that it’s willing to separate husbands and wives as well.That’s what happened to Alejandra Juarez, who was deported to Mexico on Friday after living in the United States for two decades. Despite her husband, Cuauhtemoc Temo Juarez, being a military veteran who served two years in a combat unit in Iraq as well as two other tours overseas, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) did not make efforts to keep the military family together. Temo will now have to work over time to support the family. The family’s local congressman, Darren Soto (D-FL), who’d been assisting in an effort to extend Juarez’s residence in the United States, vowed not to give up on the family.After a tear-filled goodbye to her husband and young daughters, Juarez left a scathing message for President Donald Trump:I hope this makes you happy. May God forgive you.Activists and journalists covered Juarez’s heartbreaking goodbye to her husband as well as her 16 and eight-year-old daughters.Alejandra Juarez's husband served in the U.S. military 3 times and voted for President Trump  now she's being deported and separated from her family pic.twitter.com/cP7RuiIUCT— NowThis (@nowthisnews) August 3, 2018Alejandra Juarez,38,left,has an emotional goodbye Friday to her children, Pamela,16, Estela,8, and Katie Aragon,right, of @fwd_us  at @MCO as U.S.Rep Darren Soto looks on. Juarez has run out of options to keep her family together and will be deported to #Mexico. pic.twitter.com/2Lmlyraqns— Red Huber (@RedHuber) August 3, 2018Alejandra Jurez, a Central Florida mother of two children and the wife of a U.S. Marine, is being deported today by the Trump administration at Orlando International Airport pic.twitter.com/iryUgiMfQP— Monivette Cordeiro (@monivettec) August 3, 2018The U.S. deported an undocumented woman who has lived in the U.S. for 18 years. Alejandra Juarez, who is from Mexico, is married to an Iraq War veteran and has two American children. pic.twitter.com/kFmQNAlepK— AJ+ (@ajplus) August 3, 2018In 2013, Juarez was pulled over in a traffic stop and an officer discovered her to have been in the country illegally. At the time, United States Military spouses were not prioritized for deportation. Because Juarez’s husband is a veteran, authorities told her to simply check in semiannually.Then, Donald Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy–the same that saw children torn from their parents–took effect.	Liberal
Veteran investigative journalist Carl Bernstein issued a warning to the American public during a CNN interview on Thursday, emphasizing that the deepening scandal surrounding President Donald Trump’s alleged entanglements with Russia are “worse than Watergate.”As Bernstein tweeted on Friday:"This is worse than Watergate, because the system worked in Watergate." https://t.co/4j9jQnKCIx— Carl Bernstein (@carlbernstein) August 3, 2018In 1972, Bernstein and colleague Bob Woodward wrote an explosive report in the WashingtonPost documenting a break-in at the Democratic National Committee’s offices inside Watergate Hotel in Washington D.C.That story led to an investigation which found Nixon not only knew about the crime but willingly participated in its coverup. Nixon won reelection in 1972 and then resigned in 1974 under the threat of impeachment. He was pardoned by President Gerald Ford shortly thereafter.Blitzer asked Bernstein if President Richard Nixon was as “anxious publicly” during the Watergate investigation as Trump appears to be amid the probe into his alleged ties to Russia.“First, I think we’re seeing more than anxiety on the part of Donald Trump,” Bernstein told host Wolf Blitzer. “We are seeing a president who is behaving and acting unhinged.”“Nixon did not really publicly act unhinged,” he recalled. Bernstein added that “the system worked” during Watergate, noting: “Nixon did not publicly declare the press an enemy of the people.” Bernstein then said Trump “whipped up a kind of hysteria unlike any other president in our history.”I think it’s time to recognize that what we are watching in the Trump presidency is worse than Watergate.Bernstein blasted today’s Republicans for “doing almost everything they can to impede and undermine alegitimate investigation.”“The heroes of Watergate were Republicans who demanded the president be held accountable,” Bernstein said, “who demanded he be transparent, who demanded ‘what did the president know and when did he know it,'” and who worked with Democrats to uncover the truth about “what Nixon had done.”	Liberal
The National Rifle Association is in dire financial trouble and may “be unable to exist or pursue its advocacy mission” according to court filings obtained by Rolling Stone on Friday.We've obtained court documents that show the NRA is in deep financial trouble. See the legal filing and more here https://t.co/q2mssqZvUh pic.twitter.com/8kZ4vpObil— Rolling Stone (@RollingStone) August 3, 2018Since May, the country’s largest gun lobby has been mired in lawsuits filed by New York Governor Andrew Cuomo (D) and New York State Department of Financial Services, who claim the organization was illegally selling NRA-backed insurance policies to firearm owners.Womp womp— Robert Johnson (@TeosThought) August 3, 2018The “Carry Guard” program was implemented to “reimburse gun owners for the legal costs incurred after firing a legal gun,” Rolling Stone reported.Carry Guard “unlawfully provided liability insurance to gun owners for certain acts of intentional wrongdoing,” New York state charged, leading the NRA and its insurance vendors to cease selling policies and pay a $7 million fine.In their complaint, the NRA said New York State sought to damage the group financially by forcing the NRA to “sever the NRAs ties to a wide range of financial service providers, from insurance companies to banks.” The NRA has said the state’s lawsuit amounts to a “blacklisting campaign” which has inflicted “tens of millions of dollars in damages.”Here is the actual lawsuit that the NRA filed, which contains the exact information upon which the factually accurate Rolling Stone article is based. Feel free to join us over here in reality.https://t.co/VvFjEphdWs— Jon Zal (@OfficialJonZal) August 3, 2018These “abuses,” as the complaint put it, “will imminently deprive the NRA of basic bank-depository services  and other financial services essential to the NRAs corporate existence.”“If their abuses are not enjoined,” the NRA pleaded, “they will soon, substantially, succeed.”Thoughts and prayers— Sam Cohen (@cohenss) August 3, 2018The NRA told the court that “it will be unable to exist as a not-for-profit or pursue its advocacy mission,” accusing New York State of trying to “silence one of Americas oldest constitutional rights advocates.”The NRA warns that it's in grave financial jeopardy, according to a recent court filing obtained by Rolling Stone, and that it could soon "be unable to exist or pursue its advocacy mission." https://t.co/HvDEj81rT5— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 3, 2018In addition to its plea, the complaint alleged that Cuomo“has a history of abusing his regulatory power to retaliate against his political opponents on gun control issues.” Cuomo was referred to as a “political opportunist who has consistently sought to gain political capital by attacking the NRA.”“The impact of Defendants campaign on the NRAs ability to access essential financial services has been far greater thanand, clearly distinct fromthe impact of any public controversy relating to recent tragedies.”In April and in the interest of public safety, Cuomo encouraged insurers to break ties with the NRA following the shooting at Majorie Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.The NRA is an extremist organization.I urge companies in New York State to revisit any ties they have to the NRA and consider their reputations, and responsibility to the public. https://t.co/RwD9wdNxiY— Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) April 20, 2018The complaint says Cuomo launched a “malicious conspiracy to stifle the NRAs speech and induce a boycott of the NRA” with the intent of “suppressing the NRAs pro-Second Amendment viewpoint.” Cuomo’s tweeted, the NRA charges, constitutes “unlawful conduct with the intent to obstruct, chill, deter, and retaliate against the NRAs core political speech.”The lack of access to financial services, coupled with mounting legal costs, the NRA alleges, has caused “irrecoverable loss and irreparable harm.” Financial filings showed the NRA overspent its budget by $46 million in 2016.The NRA’s complaint states that the group has also lost its insurance coverage, which in New York State, means their operations must cease.“Insurance coverage is necessary for the NRA to continue its existence,” the complaint reads.NRA cannot maintain its physical premises, convene off-site meetings and events, operate educational programs  or hold rallies, conventions, and assemblies” without liability coverage, which all businesses must have in New York.	Liberal
President Donald Trump, speaking ata rally in Pennsylvania yesterday, denied that he had kept Queen Elizabeth II waiting when he visited England last month. At the time of the meeting,The Daily Mailaccused Trump of breaking royal protocol by forcing the queen to wait for him in the heat.Oh dear, she just looked at her watch. The Queen does NOT like tardiness. pic.twitter.com/b0GXBV9oWt— Patricia Treble (@PatriciaTreble) July 13, 2018At the rally,Trump called the reports that he had kept the queen waiting fake, fake disgusting news.”"I have great respect for the UK. People call it Britain. They call it Great Britain. They used to call it England, different parts.".@realDonaldTrump denies being late for tea with the Queen during his UK visit, calling it a story spread by the "fake, fake, disgusting news." pic.twitter.com/Lp17SJTwx7— Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) August 3, 2018His full remarks are below:People call it Britain, they call it Great Britain, they used to call it England. I was asked to have tea with the queen, who is incredible by the way, incredible.I had landed and I’m on the ground and I’m waiting with the king’s and with the queen’s guards  wonderful people.I’m waiting! I was about 15 minutes early and I’m waiting with my wife, and that’s fine. Hey, it’s the queen, right? We can wait. But I’m a little early.So, I then go up and meet the queen, and she is fantastic. We then go up and we have tea. And I didn’t know this  it was supposed to last 15 minutes, but it lasted like an hour. Because we got along. And she liked our first lady and our first lady liked her.Here was the story by the fake news: The president was 15 minutes late for the queen… Wrong!Trump’s comments were immediately derided by those who said hewas, in fact,late for his meeting with the queen.Oh wait. WAIT. @realdonaldtrump is saying its fake news he kept the Queen waiting and it was HER who was late? OH WOW. WOW. Mate, we WATCHED HER STANDING STARING AT HER WATCH.— Emma Kennedy (@EmmaKennedy) August 3, 2018He. Was. Late. It. Was. Broadcast. Live. On. TV. pic.twitter.com/QKvSaNMo9c— Hilary wens (@Hil67) August 3, 2018I'm a very tolerant person and I have great respect for the President, but I will not stand by while people are late for tea. I'm sorry, but a line must be drawn.— Rich Smith (@ReCycledRich) August 3, 2018Donald Trump has respect for no-one. Not even for himself. Anyone with any self-respect wouldn't tell such blatant, pathetic, embarrassing lies. He's a desperate reality tv has-been, promoted infinitely beyond his abilities.— Kevin Dunn (@Adeodatus) August 3, 2018https://twitter.com/Mike_P_Williams/status/1025341709230723079https://twitter.com/PKBook22/status/1025331595367141376If this was a bad comedy sketch it would be truly cringe worthy. This is a real president. King's guards.. ? What king?He was late.England, Great Britain, Britain, united kingdom – thank you for the insight. Has anyone checked if he's actually had any formal education?#MAGA— Rohan Hewavisenti (@rohan1965) August 3, 2018As the rally continued, Trump praised himself for his performance during June’s summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, which many criticized as more of an opportunity to legitimize a totalitarian regime than an actual endeavor to reform policy toward the nation historians have referred to as the “Hermit Kingdom.”	Liberal
President Donald Trump continues to double down on his claims that Russia doesn’t want him in the White House.Mr. Trump made the assertion at a rally forCongressman Lou Barletta (R-PA) in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania on Thursday.Ill tell you what, Russia is very unhappy that Trump won, that I can tell you. But I got along great with Putin.Trump receives warm applause when he mentions his secret meeting with Putin. He then lies and says Putin was unhappy that he won the election because he's so tough on Russia. pic.twitter.com/HoDEIrmgWb— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) August 2, 2018It’s a claim the president has made before:Im very concerned that Russia will be fighting very hard to have an impact on the upcoming Election. Based on the fact that no President has been tougher on Russia than me, they will be pushing very hard for the Democrats. They definitely dont want Trump!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 24, 2018Trump’s claims were contradictory to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s own words at the two leaders’ joint press conference in Helsinki last month, in which a reporter asked Putin if he wanted Trump to win.Putin answered straightforwardly:“Yes, I did. I did.”Trump’s latest regurgitation of the lie came just hours after his National Intelligence Director, Dan Coats, appeared in the White House Briefing Room to caution that Russia’s efforts to influence and manipulate midterm elections are an ongoing threat. The intelligence community has also unanimously agreed that the Russian government unleashed a concentrated effort during the 2016 presidential campaign to help Donald Trumpachieve the presidency.Americans across social media were quick to remind the President of Putin’s support.Putin on July 16 in Helsinki: I wanted Trump to win.Trump on Aug 2 in Pennsylvania: Russia is very unhappy that Trump won. That I can tell you.Nuff said.— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) August 3, 2018Trump just said that Russia was "very unhappy" when he won the election.Putin himself said at the Helisnki summit that he wanted Trump to win.— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) August 2, 20188/2: TRUMP: "I'll tell you what, Russia's very unhappy that Trump won, that I can tell you" 7/16: Q: "Did you want President Trump to win the election?" PUTIN: "Yes I did. Yes I did."(Trump was standing right next to Putin when he said it.)— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 2, 2018At fascist rally in Pennsylvania on August 2, 2018, #tRump says #Russia is very unhappy that he won despite Putin saying in Helsinki that he did want tRump to win. pic.twitter.com/w6uPU4Lbyi— Jeffrey Guterman, Ph.D. (@JeffreyGuterman) August 3, 2018The cognitive dissonance that Trump requires supporters to abide is truly remarkable. He says "great meeting" with Putin, twice. That's a "good thing," twice. But three sentences later, "Russia's very unhappy that Trump won." https://t.co/GxB35QT6oM pic.twitter.com/cUjJK3nK70— Christopher Orr (@OrrChris) August 3, 2018It was far from the only unsettling moment at the president’s rally in Wilkes-Barre.	Liberal
Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) took it upon himself to educate President Donald Trump’s legal team about what “collusion” means and if it is, in fact, a crime.Trump and his TV lawyer Rudy Giuliani have maintained that collusion is not a crime, while Special Counsel Robert Mueller has been investigating whether people within Trump’s campaign cooperated with Russian efforts to sway the 2016 election.In a video posted to Twitter on Wednesday, Coons outlined precisely why collusion as described above is a crime, specifically targeting the time Trump asked Russia to hack the Democratic National Committee in 2016.“I took the liberty of looking into the United States code,” Coons said as he opened the book containing the law Trump and his lawyers wish didn’t exist.Ive been hearing @realDonaldTrump and @RudyGiuliani claiming that collusion is not a crime. Well, I took the liberty of reading the U.S. code myself. Heres what the law actually says: pic.twitter.com/qW2GPxuDdC— Senator Chris Coons (@ChrisCoons) August 1, 2018Coons read what U.S. Code Title 52 Section 30121 says:It shall be unlawful for a foreign national, directly or indirectly, to make a contribution or donation of money or other thing of value in connection to a federal, state, or local election.Coons continued reading the statute:Or for a person to solicit, accept, or receive a contribution or donation described above from a foreign national.The Senator explained how this ties into Trump and his presidential campaign’s alleged clandestine activities.“It seems pretty clear to me,” Coons said, “that anything like a treasure trove of thousands of hacked emails (it is a thing of value), being solicited, accepted by an American campaign from Russian nationals would be a clear violation of U.S. code.”Actions to work together with Russian nationals to subvert our code would be illegal collusion.On July 27, 2016, Trump urged Russia to hack the DNC and to try to dig up Hillary Clinton’s alleged missing emails. That very night, DNC servers were breached by Russian hackers and thousands of emails were stolen and later published online by Wikileaks.Coons offered some advice to Giuliani in his closing remarks.“My advice to Rudy Giuliani would be instead of arguing that it isn’t illegal, to advise his client to cooperate fully with the Mueller investigation, in the hope and expectation that if he is innocent he will be fully cleared,” Coons said. “And if not, that our laws will be enforced.”Users on social media appreciated the civics lesson.	Liberal
In a court filing, the Department of Justice said that the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), which represents plaintiffs affected by President Donald Trump’s “zero tolerance” family separations policy, should “use their considerable resources and their network of law firms, NGOs, volunteers, and others, together with the information that defendants have provided (or will soon provide)” to reunify deported parents with their children. The Trump administration suggested that the ACLU seek out the parents themselves and ask if they wish to reunite with their children or if they wish to waive that option.NEW: Trump administration says in order to reunite remaining 572 separated kids @ACLU  *not* government which separated them  should be responsible for:– Establishing contact – Determining desire to be reunified & written confirmation– Attorney consultation– Data gathering pic.twitter.com/3X8HxM8Nad— Jacob Soboroff (@jacobsoboroff) August 3, 2018An administration official said yesterday that the filing simply asks the court to require the ACLU to determine the wishes of and fulfill their obligations to their clients, as they have repeatedly represented in court that they would.The ACLU,while eager to reunite parents with their children, argued in court documents thatthe government “must bear the ultimate burden of finding the parents.”“Not only was it the government’s unconstitutional separation practice that led to this crisis, but the United States Government has far more resources than any group of NGOs,” ACLU attorneys wrote.Neither side can agreeabout what information is appropriate and necessary for the government to provide. As CNN notes:The government continues to resist giving the ACLU the entire case files of separated parents for the groups to use to track down parents. Instead, they propose delivering a list of information that the ACLU has said was a non-exhaustive list.On this matter, the DOJ’s filing states:Relatedly, Plaintiffs believe that the Government should be taking the initiative to continually provide Plaintiffs with whatever useful information they possess, without constantly waiting for Plaintiffs to request specific information, especially because the Government knows better than Plaintiffs what types of information are contained in various files and databases.According toDHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen,no parents were deported without first being given the option to take their children with them.However, a Trump administration official who spoke toPolitico said “that an estimated three-quarters of the parents who left the country alone left no record behind that they ever consented to leave their children in the U.S.”“We don’t see it in the documentation,” the official said.The ACLU claims in court documents that it tracked down 12 deported parents, only to find that they were already in contact with the government. The Trump administration said 410 children who remain in custody have parents who are no longer in the United States. According toCommander Jonathan White of the US Public Health Service Commissioned Corps,the parents of more than 500 children from separated families may have been deported.429 of those children are in the government’s custody. He added that 81 children have been released to other sponsors.	Liberal
In aletterto the inspectors general of the Air Force and Department of Defense, Democratic Senators Elizabeth Warren (MA), Tom Carper (DE), Richard Blumenthal (CT), and Sheldon Whitehouse (RI) call for an investigation into who has received private Air Force One Tours afterBuzzfeed News reported that some members of President Donald Trump’s exclusive Florida clubsincluding Mar-a-Lagoreceived private tours, a finding which raises more questions of the blurry lines between the presidency and the Trump family’s private businesses.The four senators called theBuzzfeed News report “deeply troubling” and wrote:Previous presidentshave provided friends and even campaign donors tours of Air Force One, but reports that members of the President’s private club may have received such tours are particularly troubling because their relationship to the President arises out of an ongoing business relationship with the President. If true, these reports could mean that the President or his family have used government property for private gain  giving tours of Air Force One as a perk for club membership  or that some citizens have potentially been able to buy access to Air Force One via their personal payments to the President’s private club.This use of Air Force One would not only raise questions about readiness, security, and taxpayer cost, but it also violates the basic principle against using public office for private gain, and could constitute a violation of federal ethics rules… Moreover, federal ethics law prohibits the use of government property, including Air Force One, ‘for other than authorized purposes.A complete copy of the letter is included below:Warren herself used her Twitter account to amplify the call for an investigation.Im calling for an investigation into whether @realDonaldTrump used tours of Air Force One as a perk for Mar-a-Lago club members. The American people deserve better than a president who uses taxpayer-funded government resources to feather his own nest.  https://t.co/COUQGbMBbq— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) August 2, 2018Buzzfeed Newsuncovered the story after obtaining an invitation, which they cross-checked with records received through a Freedom of Information Act request, noting that:Two separate tours were scheduled at the Atlantic Aviation FBO at Palm Beach International for 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. on Feb. 18, 2017  hours before Trump held his first 2020 campaign rally less than 120 miles away at the Orlando Melbourne International Airport hangar.The two tours are recorded differently compared to all other Air Force One tours given in the 14 months after Trump took office, according to redacted government records provided to BuzzFeed News. Unlike the other records, they dont list an agency name or title of the official in charge of the tour. The listed date for the tours matches up with the date and time listed on the invitation.At least 14 people were scheduled to take those two tours. Although the names of the individuals are redacted, partially unredacted email addresses show eight of those people were affiliated with Arrigo Automotive Group, a family-owned car dealership in the West Palm Beach area.The leadership of the company  Joe Arrigo and his sons, Jim and John Arrigo, and their wives  have been members of both Mar-a-Lago and Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach. Membership records from 2007 obtained by BuzzFeed News list the family as members of both the clubs and specify that Jim Arrigo had been a member of the Trump International Golf Club since 1999, the year it opened.Photos show John Arrigo playinggolfwith the president about two weeks before the scheduled Air Force One tour last year; being listed as the mens golf champion in 2006, 2007, and 2008 on aplaqueat Trump International; andattendingthe New Years Eve bash at Mar-a-Lago in 2009, according to the Palm Beach Post. They also show Jim Arrigo cohosting a charityeventat Trump International in December 2017. Social media posts from other members of the family show them checking in for Easter brunch at Mar-a-Lago last year and posing for pictures geotagged at the club.Buzzfeed Newsreceived the text of the invitation last year but could not, at least at first, confirmif Mar-a-Lago members had attended; the news outlet soon reached out toAir Force pilot William McDougall, who sent the invitation, but he would neither confirm nor deny the event. McDougall directed questions about the event toHannah Salem, who now serves as director of press advance for the White House.When asked about the tour last year, Salem responded,“I don’t have any working information on that.”	Liberal
Earlier this year, the Journal of the American Medical Association published a study from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which found 416 cases of advanced black lung disease in coal miners in central Appalachia from 2013 to 2017  the highest cluster of cases ever seen. The institute also confirmed a 2016-2017 investigation by National Public Radio (NPR) that discovered hundreds of other cases in southwestern Virginia, southern West Virginia and eastern Kentucky.This research indicates that black lung is returning, even as safety measures have improved over the course of decades. Dust screens and ventilation had nearly removed the disease from the U.S. in the 1990s, but these recent studies suggest otherwise in coal country.Take Barry Shrewsbury of West Virginia, for example: He worked in mining as a younger man, and presently, at age 62, has difficulty breathing and going about basic daily tasks, like showering and shopping. For his oxygen tank and medical care, Shrewsbury relies on a federal fund for miners with black lung disease, called The Black Lung Disability Trust Fund.The fund is currently under threat of dissolution. Increasing debt and cuts to contributions from the coal industry scheduled for the end of 2018 put it at risk of insolvency, according to two sources from the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) in an interview with Reuters.With black lung hitting rates unseen in decades, this is particularly dangerous as this could shift some of the financial burden to taxpayers, potentially slashing the benefits for recipients. The fund has already reluctantly borrowed more than $6.5 billion from the U.S. Treasury to finance the program, according to the Treasury Department. About half of the fund’s revenue is currently allocated toward repayment of that debt.Kirsten Almberg, an assistant professor of environmental and occupational health at the University of Illinois at Chicago, who wrote a grim analysis of Labor Department data, remarks, This is history moving in the wrong direction. Her analysis revealed that almost half the 4,679 benefits claims from miners with the most treacherous form of black lung were made in the years since 2000.Former miners and health professionals in the region believe the resurgence of the disease is due to longer hours in deeper reaches of the old mines, in addition to slack safety measures and newer machines that can now puncture through layers of rock.Presently, the fund covers medical expenses and monthly living expense payments for over 15,000 people, according to a Congressional report published this year. It also pays benefits to miners severely disabled by black lung in cases where no applicable coal company can directly provide support, like when a company bankrupts, which is fairly common given the advent of wind and solar power. About 2,600 medical claims were taken from companies and given to the fund in 2017 due to bankruptcies, according to a 2018 Congressional report.Yet, the coal industry is lobbying Congress to promote the scheduled tax reduction under the belief that that payments are too high for mining companies and the fund has seen abuse from undeserving applicants.Medical experts describe the disease as an incurable illness caused by the inhalation of coal dust, and explain that it is easy to distinguish from other diseases, using x-rays. Dr. David Blackley of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, an offshoot of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), asserts that it is not caused by smoking.	Liberal
Honeybees are pretty good at math, it turns out. A study by researchers in France and Australia published in Science found that bees can be trained to understand the mathematical concept of zero. Zero, meaning the absence of any quantity, is a relatively new concept thought to have been developed in India before the fifth century. This concept allows us to perform calculus, do complicated equations, and to have invented computers.While bees probably wont be inventing their own computers anytime soon, mathematical understanding is an indication of a certain level of intelligence. In the study, bees demonstrated math skills that parallel those seen in the African grey parrot, nonhuman primates and even preschool children.“This is quite amazing, in my view, that bees can really do it,” saysAndreas Nieder, a scientist who was not part of the research team but studies how animals process the idea of “nothing.” “It’s a hard and very abstract concept. It is a sort of eccentric uncle in the number family.In earlier studies, bees were found to have the ability to count up to four. In this study, the scientists trained individual honey bees to respond to numerical concepts of greater than or less than using cards containing one to six black symbols. The bees were presented with the opportunity to choose from stations that featured two square cards. Each card had a different number of black symbols, such as dots or triangles. Sugar water would always be located under the card with the least number of symbols. “They could come and see two circles versus three circles, or four triangles versus one triangle, or something like that,” said Scarlett Howard, a scientist with at RMIT University in Melbourne, Australia. The bees quickly learned to fly to the card with the fewest symbols. Then, then they got another test: The bees had to choose between a card that had a single symbol and a blank card with nothing on it.The bees seemed to understand that zero was less than one, because more often than not, they flew toward the blank card. “When we showed them zero versus six, they did that at a much higher level than zero versus one,” Howard says. “So what tells us is that they consider zero as an actual quantity along the number line. They’re actually better at doing zero versus six because those two numbers are further apart.”“We were very surprised and happy, excited, to see that actually the bees were choosing the empty paper,” saysAurore Avargues-Weber, aCNRSresearcher with the University of Toulouse. Even very young children, she points out,have troubleunderstanding that zero is a number. “It’s easy for them to count ‘one, two, three, four,’ but zero, it’s nothing, it’s not something to count. So it’s not the same category.”While this level of understanding is surprising in insects, other mammals have demonstrated the ability to count.	Liberal
Omarosa Manigault-Newman, the thrice-fired contestant onThe Apprentice and formerDirector of Communications for theOffice of Public Liaison in President Donald Trump’s White House, has an explosive new tell-all book coming out this month.Omarosa claims in new book she saw evidence of Trumps "mental decline" https://t.co/UZuMq2EWG6 pic.twitter.com/WSiApgvy1l— The Hill (@thehill) August 2, 2018Manigault-Newman left the Trump White House last December.On Thursday, The Daily Mail obtained a copy ofUnhinged: An Insider’s Account of the Trump White House,in which Omarosa recalls how declines in Trump’s mental fitness“could not be denied.”In the excerpt shared by Daily Mail, Omarosa referenced the 2017 interview Trump held with NBC’s Lester Holt, in which the president attempted to justify his firing of then-FBI Director James Comey over “this Russia thing.”Trump told Holt he had decided to fire Comeyregardless of recommendation” by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.Comey’s firing led to the appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating whether Trump obstructed justice and if Trump’s presidential campaign participated in a criminal conspiracy with Russia to steal the 2016presidential election.Pres. Trump on firing Comey: "I said, you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story." https://t.co/hxqM1LI6BE— NBC Nightly News with Lester Holt (@NBCNightlyNews) May 11, 2017Trump also recalled asking Comey if he personally was under investigation.“I said, ‘If it is possible, would you let me know [if] I am under investigation’? He said, ‘You are not under investigation.'”The Trump-Holt interview disturbed Newman greatly.“While watching the interview I realized that something real and serious was going on in Donald’s brain,” Manigault-Newman wrote in her book.“His mental decline could not be denied.”She alluded to her time onThe Apprentice, which she said allowed her to get to know Trump well.“Many didn’t notice it as keenly as I did because I knew him way back when. They thought Trump was being Trump, off the cuff. But I knew something wasn’t right.”Omarosa, watching the interview, realized it was a disaster, writing: “Throughout this erratic and contradictory interview, I kept thinking, ‘Oh no! Oh no! This is bad!'”Donald rambled. He spoke gibberish. He contradicted himself from one sentence to the next.She also claimed Trump’s story about Comey’s firing was the opposite of what his handlers had told him to say.Hope [Hicks, then communications director] had gone over the briefing with him a dozen times hitting the key point that he had fired Comey based on the recommendation by the DOJ which the vice president and other surrogates had been reinforcing for days.Twitter was by no means surprised by Omarosa’a account of Trump.That is no revelation.  Turn on the TV/Twitter and you too can witness it live,— Stripe (@Justme10000000) August 2, 2018What else is new?— Bob (@xsstringer) August 2, 2018Either the entire world has seen evidence of @realDonaldTrumps mental decline or he has always been a #moron.— Davey Jones (@OdysseyGTR) August 2, 2018The world has gotten the hint, tbh.	Liberal
During the 2016 presidential race, former First Lady Michelle Obama coined a saying that she hoped would elevate national political discourse amid a brutally ugly campaign.“When they go low, we go high,” she would say in response to below-the-belt attacks coming from then-candidate Donald Trump and his cohorts. Clearly, the high road didn’t prevail, as Trump defeated Hillary Clinton despite scores of scandals and an endless barrage of insults, lies, and behavior unbecoming of a presidential candidate.On Wednesday, Michael Avenatti, the lawyer representing multiple women who claim to have been paid off by Trump to keep quiet about alleged affairs they had with the billionaire, tweeted a new take on Obama’s mantra.Because,as Avenatti put it, “different people have different approaches at different times.”“Here is mine for the next two and half years: WHEN THEY GO LOW, WE HIT HARDER.”Different people have different approaches at different times.  Here is mine for the next two and half years:  WHEN THEY GO LOW, WE HIT HARDER.#Basta#FightClub— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) August 1, 2018Avenatti has been an unrelenting critic of President Donald Trump, stemming from his representation of former adult film star Stephanie Clifford. Clifford charges that Trump and his former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, forced her into signing a non-disclosure agreement and accepting a $130,000 hush money payment over an affair she alleges she had with Trump in 2006.The NDA was executed less than two months before the 2016 election and is now under investigation for possible campaign finance law violations.On Tuesday, Avenatti shredded Trump’s false claim that photo IDs are required to buy groceries.“People ask me why I think I can prevail against Mr. Trump,” Avenatti wrote in a tweet. “I tell them its because (1) Ive bought groceries before and (2) I know you dont need an ID to buy groceries.”People ask me why I think I can prevail against Mr. Trump. I tell them its because (1) Ive bought groceries before and (2) I know you dont need an ID to buy groceries. #Basta #FightClub— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) August 1, 2018Last month, Avenatti teased about running for president in 2020 as a Democrat if he believes they lack a candidate who can defeat Trump.IF (big) he seeks re-election, I will run, but only if I think that there is no other candidate in the race that has a REAL chance at beating him. We can't relive 2016.  I love this country, our values and our people too much to sit by while they are destroyed. #FightClub #Basta— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) July 4, 2018Avenatti’s Twitter followers think his new slogan signifies exactly the type of fight we need right now.Make them regret going low.  Bury them.  Expose their secrets.  Ruin their careers.  People like trump prey on the weak.  Not the strong.  Thats why he never speaks about you.  He fears your strength.— Tommy Juanso (@ResistMonsters) August 1, 2018One resister noted that Trump’s tactic is what drove him to victory.So?  Yes.  They did.  And they organized and destroyed her.  And people were too weak or naive or unwilling/incapable to do what it took to overcome their treason, and their lies, and their low blows.  Come to the present.  Focus on now and the future.  Learn from the past.— Tommy Juanso (@ResistMonsters) August 1, 2018— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) August 1, 2018Good people across the Political Spectrum like me see our biggest PRIORITY RIGHT NOW IS TO PROTECT OUR DEMOCRACY! We need a Michael who Punches Back with FACTS on Trump's LIES RIGHT NOW! Border Security as he Presents it is BS. Open BORDERS IS A LIE! Wall won't SECURE BORDERS!— Harry Arnold (@AHLHarrythekid) August 1, 2018“Avenatti 2020.” Talk about good television…#Avenatti2020 — Sandra  #Basta (@SandraCNJ7) August 1, 2018https://twitter.com/Loveon999/status/1024677476377624577Others said Avenatti’s approach should have been the Democrats’ strategy all along.	Liberal
Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats made a startling admission during a White House press briefing on Thursday, telling reporters that he really doesn’t know what was discussed between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin when the two met in Helsinki last month.“I’m not in a position to either understand fully or talk about what happened in Helsinki.”National Intelligence Director Coats: "I'm not in a position to either understand fully or talk about what happened in Helsinki. I'll turn it over to the national security director here to address that question." pic.twitter.com/8Or5EUp8ze— NBC News (@NBCNews) August 2, 2018When pressed on how he plans to combat ongoing Russian election interference in the face of Trump’s assertion he challenged Putin on what is now an indisputable fact, Coats was unable to offer any insight into what Trump and Putin discussed.“I’m not in a position to either understand fully or talk about what happened in Helsinki,” Coats said. “I’ll turn it over to the national security director here to address that question.” Coats then handed things off to National Security Advisor John Bolton.“The issue was discussed,” Bolton claimed.And in fact, President Putin said… I thought at the press conference but certainly, in the expanded bilateral meeting when the two leaders got together with their senior advisors, President Putin said the first issue President Trump raised was election meddling.Aside from the assurances of Trump, who has waffled on whether or not he even believes Russia attacked the 2016 presidential election with the aim of getting him elected, and the word of Putin, who has denied having anything to do with subverting American democracy, there is no verifiable evidence of what the two leaders actually talked about.Bolton, it seems, is also relying on Putin’s word.The Twitterverse was understandably vexed that Trump’s top intelligence chief would be in the dark about what he discussed with the Russian autocrat.Nobody knows what happened in Helsinki or if Trump sold us out. It's a new low in American Diplomacy— Upton Bell (@uptonbell) August 2, 2018Good sign when @ODNIgov doesnt have a clue and Elmer Fud gets up and spins enemy narrative based upon a meeting no one knows what was said.— Alex Philp (@aphilp1) August 2, 2018I like how Bolton says "The first issue raised was election meddling." and then turns and walks away. This administration does not want to be held accountable for anything. When the light shines on them, they scurry to hide like cockroaches.— ml8_ml8 (@ml8_ml8) August 2, 2018A fair question.Why was @realDonaldTrump a person under investigation for Obstruction of Justice, election tampering, & possible money laundering, doing meeting w/Putin alone? Did Trump approve Putin's invasions in trade for a "Moscow Tower" & more hacking?? Trump WAS TOLD of hacking 1/6/17!— L Laws (@LLaws2) August 2, 2018Trump has routinely accepted Putin’s denials as proof that Russia did not interfere in the election. As recently as yesterday, the president referred to the investigation into Russian election interference as a “rigged witch hunt,” going so far as to instruct Attorney General Jeff Sessions to shut down Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into election meddling and whether or not Trump obstructed justice...This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018Legal experts have suggested that this tweet may itself be an attempt to obstruct justice, and Mueller is reportedly rummaging through Trump’s tweets to collect evidence of the president’s intent to do so.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders refused to answer CNN reporter Jim Acosta when he asked her whether she considers the press “the enemy of the people” during today’s White House press briefing.Sanders stood by President Donald Trump’s assertions that the press is the enemy, an opinion he’s made no secret of holding when news outlets publish articles critical of him and his administration or at all related to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into his Russian ties.“For the sake of this room, for the people who are in this room, this democracy, this country, all the people around the world are watching what you’re saying, Sarah,” Acosta said, “and the White House of the United States of America, the president of the United States should not refer to us as the ‘enemy of the people.'”Acosta added: “His own daughter [Ivanka Trump] acknowledges that, and all I’m asking you to do, Sarah, is acknowledge that right now and right here.”.@Acosta: For the sake of this room, for the people in this room, this democracy, this country, all the people around the world are watching what youre saying and the president of the United States should not refer to us as enemy of the people. His own daughter acknowledges that pic.twitter.com/DfcvURj1PD— Evan Rosenfeld (@Evan_Rosenfeld) August 2, 2018“I appreciate your passion. I share it,” Sanders responded. “I’ve addressed this question. I’ve addressed my personal feelings. I’m here to speak on behalf of the president. He’s made his comments clear.”The press briefing continued, with Sanders addressing concerns that members of the GOP are stalling the National Archive’s production of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s records until October.WATCH: White House Press Sec. Sanders stands by President Trump's declarations, refusing to reject the false assertion that journalists are the enemy of the people. pic.twitter.com/oqPibSBDGf— MSNBC (@MSNBC) August 2, 2018Acosta took to Twitter shortly afterward to denounce Sanders’s reaction. “I am totally saddened by what just happened,” he wrote.I walked out of the end of that briefing because I am totally saddened by what just happened. Sarah Sanders was repeatedly given a chance to say the press is not the enemy and she wouldn't do it. Shameful.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 2, 2018Many praised Acosta’s questioning, however, as saddened as he might be by how the afternoon turned out.History will remember Jim Acosta @acosta as a staunch and determined defender of the 1st amendment. Sarah Sanders will be remembered as an accomplice to the greatest treason in American history.— TrentaCapelli (@OkCallMeAL) August 2, 2018I'm so grateful for members of our Free Press like Jim Acosta.Day in and day out, they ask tough questions in order to bring us REAL news, despite being maligned by Sarah Sanders, trump, and his vicious followers.YOU'RE NOT THE ENEMY.WE NEED YOU.Signed,Real Americans https://t.co/bwZsTlEH0d— BrooklynDad_Defiant! (@mmpadellan) August 2, 2018SHE'S the enemy of the people.And the fascist, child abducting traitor she works for.She needs remedial classes in US history and US govt – clearly she knows nothing about either.Shame on @PressSec— Kathleen L August (@KL_August) August 2, 2018@PressSec is emotionally detached from her horrific reality of collaboration with crimes against the American people. Her victim narrative is similar to that of the Vichy collaborators. She is a willful conspirator in the crimes against humanity and against America. pic.twitter.com/PAUsjfr7Fz— Smith (@WriteSmitty) August 2, 2018History will look favorably on responsible, professional journalists such as @CNN's @Acosta, + many others from @washingtonpost, @nytimes, @BBC, & countless regional/local news sources. History will condemn @realDonaldTrump & @PressSec.— C. Jeffrey Smith (@CJSmith7880) August 2, 2018Acosta made headlines earlier this week after he was heckled by multiple Trump supporters in Tampa, Florida as he stood on a podium to cover one of the president’s rallies.“Traitor!” yelled some.“You’re a liar!” yelled others.This is whats happening at the Trump rally in Tampa as @Acosta does a live shot. Folks booing, shouting traitor, and youre a liar. pic.twitter.com/aUoUF4cwcB— Ali Vitali (@alivitali) July 31, 2018Acosta engaged them, however, and later tweeted that he “took more questions from them than the president has taken from the press lately.”It was great chatting with all the Trump supporters in Tampa tonight. I took more questions from them than the president has taken from the press lately.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 1, 2018Sanders, meanwhile, has continued to blame members of the press for “furthering a divide” in our nation. Sanders also came under fire earlier today after sheclaimed that the media is at fault for thwarting U.S. spying on Osama bin Ladens activities prior to the 9/11 terrorist attacks.	Liberal
Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), flanked by other Republicans of the Senate Judiciary Committee, spoke to the press on Thursday.Hatch criticized the “dumbass” partisanship that’s come to characterize congress and United States political culture as a whole, particularly as it pertains to Democrats’ attempts to oppose Brett Kavanaugh, Donald Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Court."I'm tired of partisanship and frankly, we didn't treat their candidates for these positions the way they're treating ours," Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) said of Democrats opposing Kavanaugh's confirmation due to "dumbass" partisanship pic.twitter.com/FRXVb0TWMo— POLITICO (@politico) August 2, 2018Hatch said:I want to really compliment the Democrats who have stood up and are willing to stand up for Judge Kavanaugh. We can’t keep going down this partisan, picky, stupid, dumbass road that has happened around here for so long. I am sick and tired of it to be honest with you and I’m tired of the partisanship.Frankly, we didn’t treat their candidates for these positions, the way they are treating ours. I would like to see us hopefully break through and change that.Hatch is referring to complaints from senate Democrats that they haven’t been supplied with enough documentation of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh’s time working for the Bush administration.While Hatch is criticizing Democrats for partisanship, he seems to have forgotten that denying potential Supreme Court nominees put forth by Democratic presidents has become a specialty of Republicans over the past nine years. When President Barack Obama nominated Elena Kagan in 2010, Republicans insisted on documenting an exhaustive paper trail.Most infamously, when Obama attempted to nominate Merrick Garland in 2016, Senate Republicans–led by Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY)–exercised their control over congress, refusing to even consider his nomination.So Hatch seems correct in saying Republicans didn’t treat candidates nominated by a Democrat with the same skepticism as Democrats are putting on Kavanaugh now. By refusing to even consider an Obama appointee, one could argue Republicans weremorepartisan.Americans on social media seem to think so.Someone tell Orrin Hatch we dont need a lecture about dumbass partisanship from the man who led an egregious and unprecedented blocking of a nominee to the Supreme Court, simply because the President at the time was a Democrat.— Matt McDermott (@mattmfm) August 2, 2018Orrin Hatch is right, the GOP did not treat the Dems candidates the way the Dems are treating Kavanaugh.  They are holding hearings, debating, and will ultimately vote.  None of that was done for Merrick Garland.— Lana Feix (@monkeyfeix77) August 2, 2018merrick garland— Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) August 2, 2018Orrin Hatch is calling out the "dumbass" partisanship of the Dems holding up Kavanaugh today….."I'm tired of partisanship and frankly, we didn't treat their candidates for these positions the way they're treating ours."I can't even with this.— Mindy Fischer Writer (@NastyMindy) August 2, 2018Unlike Democrats in 2016, Senate Republicans are in a much better position to ensure Kavanaugh’s confirmation.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders is under scrutiny after she claimed that the media is at fault for thwarting U.S. spying on Osama bin Laden’s activities prior to the 9/11 terrorist attacks.Sanders said the following as she answered a question about threats and insults reporters have faced from Trump supporters:When it comes to the media the president does thinkthat the media holds a responsibility. We fully support a free press, but there also comes a high level of responsibility with that. The media routinely reports on classified information and government secrets that put lives in danger and risks valuable national security tools.One of the worst cases was the reporting on the U.S. ability to listen to Osama Bin Laden’s satellite phone in the late 90s. Because of that reporting, he stopped using that phone and the country lost valuable intelligence.Sec. Sanders: "The media routinely reports on classified information and government secrets…One of the worst cases was the reporting on the United States' ability to listen to Osama bin Ladens satellite phone"This phone story has been discredited https://t.co/dS3ceWecfv pic.twitter.com/4Y6f1SsDwB— NBC News (@NBCNews) August 2, 2018That story has been debunkedand CNN soon called Sanders out.White House press secretary Sarah Sanders falsely blamed journalists for thwarting US spying on Osama bin Laden just years before the 9/11 terrorist attacks https://t.co/y6IN9SwzK7 pic.twitter.com/goixw1FHFL— CNN (@CNN) August 1, 2018As CNN’s Jeremy Diamond notes in the piece:That assertion is false and has previously been debunked years ago.Sanders did not respond to CNN requests asking which article she was specifically referring to, but Sanders appeared to be drawing on a claim by former President George W. Bush and the 9/11 Commission.Bush and the commission in 2005 blamed an August 1998 article inThe Washington Times for revealing that the US government had the ability to monitor bin Laden’s satellite communications.The story in question did not claim that the US government was monitoring the phone, instead merely reporting that bin Laden used a satellite phonesomething that was widely known at the time. Further, aWashington Post article from the time of Bush’s accusation points out that the Taliban, and bin Laden himself, not the US government, were the sources of information about bin Laden’s phone usage.Several media reports, including one from CNN, around the time of the August 1998Washington Times story also noted that bin Laden used a satellite phone, including to conduct media interviews. Only a USA Today story from around that time quoted a former US official noting that bin Laden “had a fondness for his cell phone.”Diamond goes on to note that:Despite the lack of reporting about the US government monitoring that phone, some national security officials at the time later claimed bin Laden’s [sic] stopped using that satellite phone because of theWashington Timesreportand the 9/11 commission later parroted that assertion.On September 7, 1998 a US newspaper, theLos Angeles Times, reported on US government monitoring of bin Laden’s satellite phonebut in that same article they noted that bin Laden could be scaling back use of the devices.Sanders, for her part, finally responded to CNN, and she stuck to her claims despite being debunked..@CNN was NYT falsely reporting Lee Hamilton of 9/11 Commission when he said "Leaks can be terribly damaging. In the late 90's, it leaked out…the U.S. was using Osama bin Laden's satellite phone to track his whereabouts. Bin Laden stopped using that phone; we lost his trail." https://t.co/CifK2yhgqg— Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) August 2, 2018The message prompted MSNBC’s Chris Hayes to ask what Sanders’s assertions “have to do with yelling and cursing at a reporter doing a stand up.”What does any of that have to do with yelling and cursing at a reporter doing a stand up?— Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) August 2, 2018Morning Joe co-host Joe Scarborough also criticized Sanders, saying that she lied and spread Pizzagate nonsense.”But then speaking of fake news, you have Sarah Huckabee Sanders pushing a lie, Scarborough said. The fake news about some report on Osama bin Laden and how the press actually stopped American military men and women from catching [bin Laden]. She might as well have said Neil Armstrong never walked on the moon. Just pure conspiracy, Pizzagate nonsense.	Liberal
Ivanka Trump appeared to break with her father, President Donald Trump, in a conversation with Axios 360 on Thursday.She called her father’s policy of separating immigrant families “a low point” and insisted that she was “very vehemently against it.”.@IvankaTrump: "That was a low point for me as well. I feel very strongly about that. I am very vehemently against family separation and the separation of parents and childrenimmigration is incredibly complex as a topic." #axios360 pic.twitter.com/shU32wprwu— CSPAN (@cspan) August 2, 2018After her remarks, a familiar frustration with the president’s eldest daughter began to reemerge: If she was so against this policy, why didn’t she do more to rally against it?Though it’s been reported she advised against the zero tolerance policy in private, she did not publicly come out against it until after her father begrudgingly signed an executive order abolishing it in June.Even then, she praised her father for lifting it without mentioning that his administration mandated it in the first place.Thank you @POTUS for taking critical action ending family separation at our border. Congress must now act + find a lasting solution that is consistent with our shared values;the same values that so many come here seeking as they endeavor to create a better life for their families— Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) June 20, 2018Americans on social media weren’t going to let her off easy.But I wont lift a finger to stop it or to reunite families— Kathleen OBrien Morrissey (@KKMorrissey) August 2, 2018…and wht did she do abt it?,…Nonsense !— Kwadwo (@Kwadwo49838108) August 2, 2018Hmmm. If only she had some influence over someone important in the administration. — MartinAmerica (@martinamerica) August 2, 2018So she protested by….continuing to come in to work and support the policy and the admin. Uh huh.— Eric Schmeltzer (@JustSchmeltzer) August 2, 2018Others criticized that she referred to the policy as though its effects were over, when in fact, at least 650 children remain separated from their parents."felt very strongly" not feel…it's not like it's over. We're still dealing with the ramifications of family separation.— NotThatFunnyInPerson (@lindslantz) August 2, 2018Ivanka describing that family separation "was a low point" when hundreds of families are still separated is kind of everything you need to say about her.— Peter Labuza (@labuzamovies) August 2, 2018Was ?Hundreds of children remain in cages today. #ReuniteFamiliesNow— Teresa Harris (@THarris1939) August 2, 2018"Was"? IT'S STILL HAPPENING @IvankaTrump— JMo (@Jmofloyd) August 2, 2018Ivanka Trump has a history of appearing tone-deaf in efforts to straddle both sides of a fence that, for many since her father’s election, no longer separates political ideologies, but moral ones.	Liberal
CNN’s Jim Acosta and Fox News’s Sean Hannity’s budding Twitter war heated up Wednesday night after Acosta dragged Hannity for being “just a talk show host, not a journalist.”Acosta is CNN’s Senior White House Correspondent and has drawn the ire of the president for asking tough questions and not backing down in his pursuit of the truth.Hannity is a right-wing entertainer who has suggested that Trump should revoke the press credentials of major news organizations.Acosta tweeted that Hannity’s constant defense of President Donald Trump, and his relentless attacks on the free press, makes Hannity a “propagandist for profit, peddling lies every night.”Hannity is a propagandist for profit, peddling lies every night. He says hes just a talk show host, not a journalist. But hes injecting poison into the nations political bloodstream warping public attitudes about the press. Im confident in the long run the truth will prevail.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 2, 2018Acosta reminded Hannity and the world that the Fox News conservative once admitted: “he’s just a talk show host, not a journalist.”I'm not a journalist jackass. I'm a talk host. https://t.co/fj1ZCsAEL4— Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) October 26, 2016“But hes injecting poison into the nations political bloodstream,” Acosta wrote of Hannity, “warping public attitudes about the press.” Acosta concluded that he’s “confident in the long run the truth will prevail.”Hannity fired back Wednesday evening, tweeting to “Jimmy” that he doesn’t care about Acosta’s feelings and referring to his career as a journalist as “lying bullshit.”Jimmy @Acosta sorry your precious feelings are hurt & that people see through your lying bullshit for what it is. FAKE NEWS. #CNNSUCKS— Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) August 2, 2018Acosta was heckled during a campaign rally headlined by Trump in Florida Tuesday night by a horde of rowdy Trump fans. Rallying cries of boos, people shouting traitor, and youre a liar were lobbed at Acosta. “CNN sucks” was also shouted at Acosta as he reported on the event.This is whats happening at the Trump rally in Tampa as @Acosta does a live shot. Folks booing, shouting traitor, and youre a liar. pic.twitter.com/aUoUF4cwcB Ali Vitali (@alivitali) July 31, 2018@realDonaldTrump supporters protest against @CNN reporter @Acosta at @realDonaldTrump rally in Tampa, Florida. @TB_Times pic.twitter.com/mpArxHW9Q2— Octavio Jones (@OctavioJones) July 31, 2018Twitter wasn’t having it with Hannity’s less-than-courteous response.Always a class act, Seanny. Your day in court will be coming soon. Remember to smile for your mug shot.— Jon Cooper  (@joncoopertweets) August 2, 2018Hey Sean (should be Shawn) why are you attacking real journalists? Don't you just play one on TV? If you arent a journalist then why should you be doing these interviews asking political questions? pic.twitter.com/NGEAl9uQHN— TrumpTrollHunter #theblueiniative (@45TrollHunter) August 2, 2018 pic.twitter.com/lmuxk6xHGT— TrumpTrollHunter #theblueiniative (@45TrollHunter) August 2, 2018Sean Hannity is neither a journalist nor a reporter.He's just fake news.No prestigious awards, no accolades, no credibility.Just a fake.And a yooge d!ck.— MariaC (@ArgentinaMama) August 2, 2018One person accused Hannity of being the “Joseph Goebbels of this administration.” Oh please, he wishes.You will go down infamously in history as the Joseph Goebbles of this administration.— Boiling Frog  (@enjoyyourwall) August 2, 2018Speaking of “lying bullshit…”I dont think Jims feelings are hurt nor do I think his work is lying bullshit.Now (flips the page) lets talk about your show, darling….— Red (@Redpainter1) August 2, 2018“Irony truly escapes Sean Hannity,” who works for an “entertainment network.”The conspiracy theory propagandist who works for an entertainment network that masquerades as news is calling an actual journalist a liar and the network he represents fake.Irony truly escapes Sean Hannity.— Political Southpaw (@DahlELama2) August 2, 2018We’re not done yet.	Liberal
TheNew York Post has come under fire for a questionable headline related to its coverage of former President Barack Obama’s long list of Democratic endorsements.“Obama Endorses Controversial Rapper Ahead of Midterms,” the headline reads.Obama endorses controversial rapper ahead of midterms https://t.co/cYrVh0HKS6 pic.twitter.com/vUTJvmRyqV— New York Post (@nypost) August 2, 2018That “controversial rapper” isAntonio Delgado, who has pledgedto fight for universal, affordable healthcare for all, a tax code that works for working people and the middle class, and to restore opportunity” for individuals “across the Hudson Valley, Catskills and Capital region,” according to his website.ThePost notes:Delgado, who is challenging first-term GOP Rep. John Faso in the Hudson Valley and Catskills region, released an 18-song CD in 2006 titled Painfully Free.In it, Delgado, a Schenectady native, spews the N-word, compares dead presidents to white supremacists and blasts the countrys two-party political system.ThePost‘s headline was immediately decried as racist. None of the other candidates on Obama’s listwhich includes a host of women and people of colorhave faced such scrutiny, or been subject to questionable headlines.This headline is racist  https://t.co/jvdU8QDcwS— Shannon Watts (@shannonrwatts) August 2, 2018Severalpeople pointed out that Delgado is a Rhodes scholar and graduate of Harvard Law School.Alternative headline: Obama endorses Upstate native, Rhodes scholar and Harvard Law grad for NY-19 ahead of midterms https://t.co/VZ4eOk98mw— Emma Lasch (@emmalasch) August 2, 2018LMFAO!! Antonio Delgado, the controversial rapper, is a Rhodes scholar with a degree from Harvard Law School. https://t.co/9XWreBna6F— Michael Skolnik (@MichaelSkolnik) August 2, 2018The headline should have read " Former President Barack Obama endorses Rhodes Scholar Antonio Delgado from New York State for congress"  Simple, but they had to degrade him first! By the way Antonio Delgado is a graduate from Oxford University (UK) and Harvard University— Sonji (Publicist) (@SonjiCarey) August 2, 2018You spelled "Harvard law school graduate, Rhodes scholar, and successful lawyer" wrong.— Brian Campbell (@briancampbell93) August 2, 2018Another reminded readers that thePost endorsed President Donald Trump in 2016 despite his numerous scandals.NewYork Post  endorsed  controversial bigot in 2016.— ReeseTheNewDemocrat (@reesetheone1) August 2, 2018Delgado himself has not commented on thePost‘s headline, but he did take the time to thank Obama for endorsing him.Delgado said he is “Honored and truly humbled” by the endorsement, adding that Obama “stands for so many of the values that we hold as our foundation,” including “preserving and improving our democracy” and “a commitment to service.”Honored and truly humbled to receive an endorsement from @BarackObama. He stands for so many of the values that we hold as our foundation – preserving and improving our democracy, a commitment to service, hard work, and the promotion of dignity and respect for everyone. https://t.co/n2i0xGrjKO— Antonio Delgado (@DelgadoforNY19) August 1, 2018Obama’s announcement included only his first round of Democratic endorsements. There will be more to come, particularly as we get closer to November’s midterm elections.	Liberal
The Trump administration has recently come under fire for its policy of forcibly separating children from their parents. Although Trump issued somewhat of a mea culpa, by signing an executive order ending his own administration’s policy of forcible separation, the damage was still done. Through the executive order, Trump is basically ordering that the policy that children be separated from their undocumented parents be replaced with a policy that entire families would be detained, despite previously asserting that you can’t do it by executive order.”Prior to the initial policy, no law existed requiring the separation of children from their parents. Now, his attempt at a face-saving executive order still has the potential to cause emotional, physical, and psychological damage to these children, even when detained with their parents.“So we’re going to have strong  very strong borders, but we’re going to keep the families together. I didn’t like the sight or the feeling of families being separated,” said Trump.Many medical groups denounced the initial policy, calling it traumatic, with the potential to cause toxic stress and irreversible harm to brain development. Numerous photos were released depicting the psychological effect of the policy on the separated childrenphotos showed children visibly upset and crying. Many children separated under the initial policy have yet to be reunited with their parents, meaning that sustained psychological damage continues to exist. According to CNN, a court order initially mandated that all children separated by Trumps policy were to be reunited by July 26th. After that deadline passed, a third of separated children had yet to be returned to their families, with no plan for reunification in sight,Any forced separation is highly stressful for children and can cause lifelong trauma, as well as an increased risk of other mental illnesses, such as depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder, said Dr. Altha Stewart of the American Psychiatric Association. Many families crossing the United States border are fleeing war and violence in their home countries and are already coping with the effects of stress and trauma. These children deserve our protection and should remain with their families as they seek asylum.Dr. Colleen Kraft, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, spoke out against the policy when it was first announced. Staff had told Kraft that they were not allowed to physically comfort the children.We know that separation of children from loving caregivers promotes something called toxic stress in their brain. There are certain patterns of stress that result in disruptions of brain architecture in children and can result in young children in developmental delays, she said.Dr. Ana Mara Lpez, president of the American College of Physicians, also highlighted some of the physical repercussions of the forced separation.The lifetime impacts range from behavioral problems and mental health trauma to a persons physiology. It can raise the risk of chronic illness  cardiovascular disease and even cancer. From a health perspective this approach is really hurtful and damaging to families, she said.	Liberal
Former New York City Mayor and TV lawyer for President Donald Trump Rudy Giuliani previewed the argument that Trump and his allies are likely to make to Republican voters in order to hold onto power this November.Trump lawyer Giuliani says midterms will answer impeachment question https://t.co/GcYQMHYa0K pic.twitter.com/lPyGdYnYTh— CNBC International (@CNBCi) August 1, 2018On Wednesday afternoon, Giuliani explained that November’s midterms will be a referendum on Trump and whether or not the country wants to see the president impeached.#URGENT: Giuliani says "this (midterm) election is going to be about impeachment or no impeachment"— Carol Costello (@CarolHLN) August 1, 2018“I say this not in my role as a lawyer but as a concerned citizen and Republican,” Giuliani said. “This election is going to be about impeachment or no impeachment.”Giuliani was speaking at a campaign event forEddie Edwards, who is seeking the Republican nomination to representNew Hampshire’s 1st Congressional District the U.S. House of Representatives. His job was to rally the troops, and it’s clear that this is how they intend to do it: argue that if Democrats take over, that’s it for Trump.This is the first thing Giuliani has said that is a fact. #ImpeachTrump #TraitorInChief https://t.co/PczE7ONWkU— Randall Smith (@randallaubwa) August 1, 2018“If Democrats get control of the House, do you think they’re going to treat President Trump fairly?” Giuliani asked. Many in the crowd shouted, “no!”“I don’t think they will either,” Giuliani replied.When you look at some of them on television  ‘Traitor. He’s a traitor, he’s this, he’s that.’  You get the sense that there isn’t a fair-minded, large enough group of people there that we can trust not to take this country down this terrible road.This follows similar messaging by former Chief White House Strategist Steven Bannon, who in June said that the midterms would be an “up or down vote on the impeachment of Donald Trump” and that GOP voters should pretend Trump is “on the ballot.”This is Trump’s first [re-election],” Bannon told ABC News ChiefWhite HouseCorrespondent Jonathan Karl. “It’s going to be this November.“It’s very simple, November 6th, up or down vote … up or down vote on the impeachment of Donald Trump. I’ll tell you what, you get to then look at … the growth of the economy,” he said.Trump’s top talking head also said that a Democrat-controlled House would have the votes to move forward with potential articles of impeachment, which have twice been abandoned under the Republican leadership.This strategy plays out, of course, under the cloud of the Mueller investigation, which Giuliani once again called for an end to earlier Wednesday.	Liberal
Ever since the announcement on July 26that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s team was reviewing the Twitter feed of President Donald Trump, people speculated as to why. Obstruction of justice made the top of most lists.Obstruction of Justice includes:the crime or act of willfully interfering with the process of justice and law especially by influencing, threatening, harming, or impeding a witness, potential witness, juror, or judicial or legal officer or by furnishing false information in or otherwise impeding an investigation or legal process”On Wednesday, sources revealed that Mueller’s office notified the President’s team of the Special Counsel’s plan to limit the scope of questioning of the President. Trump’s interview would be done both orally and in written form.And included within that limited scope would be questionsabout potential obstruction of justice.Trump came under fire from critics again Wednesday morning for a tweet seeming to order Attorney General Jeff Sessions who recused himself from the investigation due to conflict of interest from his work on the 2016 Trump campaign to end the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and possible ties to Trump...This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018Word that Mueller intends to focus on obstruction is being blamed for the string of tweets Trump postedthis morning advising Sessions to end the Russia probe and attacking the FBI, the Democratic Party, Hillary Clinton,and Robert Mueller himself.Russian Collusion with the Trump Campaign, one of the most successful in history, is a TOTAL HOAX. The Democrats paid for the phony and discredited Dossier which was, along with Comey, McCabe, Strzok and his lover, the lovely Lisa Page, used to begin the Witch Hunt. Disgraceful! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018We already have a smoking gun about a campaign getting dirt on their opponent, it was Hillary Clinton. How is it OK for Hillary Clinton to proactively seek dirt from the Russians but the Trump campaign met at the Russians request and that is bad? Marc Thiessen, Washington Post Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018Discussions about a potential interview of the President by Robert Mueller or members of his team go back to at least the beginning of the year. In March, Trump’s legal team proposed negotiating termsincluding a set in stone end date for the investigation in exchange for a commitment from the President to agree to an interview.And last week, Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani publicly stated Trump would agree to an interview, but only if no questions about obstruction of justice are included.“We have a list of questions that are fairly narrowed but we are waiting on the special counsel’s response,” Giuliani said last week. Today he stated, “They took about 10 days and yesterday we got a letter back for them. Now we’re in the process of responding to their proposal.”But for each informal proposal made by Trump or his legal team in the court of public opinion, Mueller remained mum. The President’s Twitter account tweeted Mueller’s name 25 times since March of this year.Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans? Another Dem recently added…does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2018In fact Mueller makes no appeals to the press or the public.Robert Swan Mueller III a Vietnam Marine Corps veteran and attorney who served as the sixth Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 2001 to 2013 gained the respect of his fellow Republicans and Democrats for his unbiased, no nonsense approach. That respect is why Mueller was chosen as Special Counsel.And while many would rise to the constant baiting from the Trump administration on social media platforms and in TV interviews, Mueller lets his results speak for him.pic.twitter.com/wzHe9w5I3p (((Laurie)))???????? (@BruinieBear) August 1, 2018So far his roughly 14 month old investigation bore more fruit than the years spent investigating President Bill Clinton, President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, as the following numbers show.	Liberal
To say the Trump Administration has a credibility problem is like saying the Titanic had minor issues with customer satisfaction. In the last week, The Washington Post, Chicago Tribune, New York Daily News and scores of other newspapers and magazines did stories on the lies told by President Donald Trump with headlines like “All the President’s Lies” and “Trump lies. And lies. And lies.”And that reputation extends beyond the United States border. The Toronto Star established a Trump fact checker. According to the introduction, the Canadian news organization is “keeping track of every false claim U.S. President Donald Trump has made since his inauguration on Jan. 20, 2017. Why?”Historians say there has never been such a constant liar in the Oval Office. We think dishonesty should be challenged. We think inaccurate information should be corrected. And we think the sheer frequency of Trumps inaccuracy is a central story of his presidency.”Natural Resources Defense Council, Politifact, The Washington Post and other organizations both in and outside the news media are also tracking the lies associated with Trump.Now, to show some balance, The Huffington Post compiled a video of the truths of Trump. The one minute, 28 second video, features clips from speeches the President made during his campaign and after his election.We know its hard to believe, but sometimes Donald Trump doesnt lie. pic.twitter.com/hmkXWuf2Sy HuffPost (@HuffPost) August 1, 2018Of course, most of the truths are less than flattering.On May 5, 2016, candidate Trump stated he used to call the election system rigged but once he won the Republican candidacy, he no longer said it. In August of the same year, the presidential candidate said in the heat of the moment he often said the wrong thing.Then in December, after the election, when his supporters chanted “lock her up” Trump said he did not say that anymore because it only plays great before the election, but post election he didn’t care.In 2018, Trump admitted to saying good things about Kim Jong Un because he made a deal with him but if the deal went south he would find some kind of excuse.The President also told the truth about lacking social skills but having plenty of social media and only speaking about polls that favor him.Reactions to the video posted by Huffington Post on their politics and main Twitter feeds were equally unflattering, as the following examples show.	Liberal
Though White House press briefings are becoming increasingly rare, Sarah Huckabee Sanders found herself taking questions at the podium on Wednesday, the day after President Donald Trump’s raucous campaign rally in which the President claimed that Americans need an ID to buy groceries as a way to bolster support for restrictive Voter ID laws.Sanders was subsequently asked at Wednesday’s press briefing about the President’s last time in a grocery store.Reporter: "Last night [Trump] said you need an ID to buy groceries."Sarah Huckabee Sanders: "Certainly, if you go to a grocery store and you buy beer and wine, you're certainly going to show your ID" https://t.co/PhB2FsJeKV pic.twitter.com/6eCSnoh4zh— POLITICO (@politico) August 1, 2018Sanders’s response:“Certainly, if you go to a grocery store and you buy beer and wine, you’re certainly going to show your ID.”And when asked why he would buy beer and wine at a grocery store when he doesn’t drink, Sanders replied “He’s not saying every time he went in. He said when you go to the grocery store.”The President’s full remarks were:If you go out and you want to buy groceries, you need a picture on a card, you need I.D. You go out and you want to buy anything, you need I.D. And you need your picture. In this country the only time you don’t need it in many cases is when you want to vote.Sanders defended him, insisting that anyone who’d been to a grocery store and purchased beer or wine most likely had to show identification. And in what’s become her standard method for evading a question, Sanders redirected the reporter to another entity, though this time it didn’t seem as smooth, with Sanders saying, “If they didn’t show ID, that’s probably a problem with the grocery store.”While it’s true that grocery stores are supposed to request identification in transactions involving beer or wine, Press Secretary Sanders didn’t address why the president said “groceries” instead of simply “alcohol.”Social media seemed to notice.Sara Huckabee Sanders @PressSec contends all trips to the grocery store include purchases of beer and alcohol and that's why all you assholes must show your ID so shut up.— Grumpy AF (@lisagolden) August 1, 2018Come to PA – no beer, no wine in our grocery store! Sarah Huckabee Sanders never gets tired of lying.— Susan E. Kelley (@sekmainframe1) August 1, 2018Well, beer and wine have certainly become two of my major food groups since November 2016, but I did not know they were considered "groceries."— Lynn Jones (@LynnR3dh3ad) August 1, 2018sarah sanders just compared voting to buying beer and wine at a grocery store, which i guess means that white chicks in short dresses will be able to do it without an id and the election workers will be following me around to make sure i don't take a voting booth home with me.— m i t h (@ManInTheHoody) August 1, 2018@PressSec So. Much. Gaslighting.— Oza Haz (@haz_oza) August 1, 2018Even if that’s exactly what Trump meant, using the regulation of alcohol as an argument for greater regulation of voting isn’t exactly apt.	Liberal
Many Americans may be desensitized to President Donald Trump’s frequent ire toward the press by now, but the hatred for so-called “fake news” networks and for reporters that Trump has sown in his supporters since the start of his campaign becomes disturbingly clear at the president’s rallies.This was the case at Trump’s rally in Tampa, Florida Tuesday night, where a mass of Trump supporters heckled CNN’s Jim Acosta with taunts of “traitor” and “liar” as he stood on a podium to cover the rally for CNN. Eventually, Acosta could hardly hear his own voice.This is whats happening at the Trump rally in Tampa as @Acosta does a live shot. Folks booing, shouting traitor, and youre a liar. pic.twitter.com/aUoUF4cwcB— Ali Vitali (@alivitali) July 31, 2018Acosta’s reaction to the ravenous supporters, however, was that of an honorable journalist seeking truth: He engaged them and faced their questions.This stands in stark contrast to the current administration, who only held three White House Press Briefings last month and whose leader refused sixteen questions in six days. Acosta himself said he took more questions at the rally than the president had taken from the press.It was great chatting with all the Trump supporters in Tampa tonight. I took more questions from them than the president has taken from the press lately.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 1, 2018He shared similar sentiments during the rally with CNN News Anchor Anderson Cooper:And its amazing, Anderson. Youre hearing some of the insults being hurled at us right now. Ive been talking to some of these folks this evening, even though theyre being pretty negative towards us right now. I answered a bunch of questions from some of these Trump supporters here about all sorts of things, a lot more questions than the President has taken from us in recent days, Anderson.His integrity did not go unnoticed.After each live shot, @Acosta would walk down and politely talk to the people who just heckled him.  He talked to one group for at least 15 minutes. pic.twitter.com/J26nlxfD6k— Christopher Heath (@CHeathWFTV) August 1, 2018Attendees at Trump rally line up behind Jim @Acosta live shot to scream at him CNN sucks tell the truth and liar He calmly spoke to them when he was done pic.twitter.com/bLuZ4ZpfiB— Emily Goodin (@Emilylgoodin) July 31, 2018Wow! @Acosta You have my deepest respect! There is no way I would want to be in such a hostile environment like #TrumpTampa Rally! You do it with so much professional!  #forfactssake I stand with the #FreePress #FactsMatter #MediaMatters #SupportFreePress #FreeSpeech #Resist— Jeannie (@peacemomma67) August 1, 2018Youre a class act, @Acosta. More than I can say about most of the people in that arena in their two minutes hate (more like two hours). https://t.co/nXoBhcQAxY— Max Boot (@MaxBoot) August 1, 2018The aggression of the supporters, however, is an example of what can happen when a president focuses his energy on constructing an enemy rather than uniting a country.	Liberal
Former President Barack Obama has remained largely out of the public eye since President Donald Trump took office, much to the chagrin of liberals hoping to flip control of Congress and states to the Democrats in November.All that changed on Wednesday.The 44th president took to Twitter to share an en mass endorsement of 81 Democratic candidates running for public office, ranging from governorships and state-level cabinet posts, to state legislatures and the U.S. Congress.“Today Im proud to endorse such a wide and impressive array of Democratic candidates  leaders as diverse, patriotic, and big-hearted as the America theyre running to represent,” Obama tweeted.Today Im proud to endorse such a wide and impressive array of Democratic candidates  leaders as diverse, patriotic, and big-hearted as the America theyre running to represent: pic.twitter.com/gWzalQhFas— Barack Obama (@BarackObama) August 1, 2018He followed up with a tweet containing a much-needed sense of optimism and hope, delivered as only Obama can.“Im confident that, together, theyll strengthen this country we love by restoring opportunity, repairing our alliances and standing in the world, and upholding our fundamental commitment to justice, fairness, responsibility, and the rule of law,” Obama wrote. “But first, they need our votes.”Im confident that, together, theyll strengthen this country we love by restoring opportunity, repairing our alliances and standing in the world, and upholding our fundamental commitment to justice, fairness, responsibility, and the rule of law. But first, they need our votes.— Barack Obama (@BarackObama) August 1, 2018Twitter exploded with gratitude for the former president’s outreach, and people really,really miss having him as the leader of our country.We miss you, Mr. President.https://t.co/EtXuYwFFTA— Jon Zal (@OfficialJonZal) August 1, 2018PS: I hope your next wave of endorsements includes @HoulahanForPa in #PA06.https://t.co/NnphP1XY0v— Jon Zal (@OfficialJonZal) August 1, 2018 pic.twitter.com/duXKNOvNex— Shah Rukh Khan FC (@iamsrknFC) August 1, 2018 pic.twitter.com/baYZP14WfN— Shah Rukh Khan FC (@iamsrknFC) August 1, 2018 pic.twitter.com/1v7z0uZWSQ— The Resistance (@ResistanceNOW77) August 1, 2018 pic.twitter.com/fkncP2Js2E— Cheri DelBrocco (@cdelbrocco) August 1, 2018 pic.twitter.com/wrtARW5oqA— The Resistance (@ResistanceNOW77) August 1, 2018Even one of the candidates who received Obama’s endorsement chimed in.I am so proud to have earned your endorsement, Mr. President! Thank you!https://t.co/CrsYsKuzFf#SarahforGeorgia— Sarah Riggs Amico (@SarahRiggsAmico) August 1, 2018Lauren Underwood, whom Obama appointed as a senior advisor at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is running for the U.S. House in Illinois. She received Obama’s endorsement and shared her gratitude as well.Honored to be endorsed by President @BarackObama! It was a pleasure to serve in his administration, and I look forward to continuing the fight to provide all Americans with affordable health care. Help us build on this momentum with a donation now: https://t.co/hvrDUrGeMa #IL14 pic.twitter.com/ZTlUI7kWz3— Lauren Underwood (@LUnderwood630) August 1, 2018The dichotomy between Obama and Trump didn’t escape social media’s attention.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s favorite morning talk show, Fox News’Fox & Friends, conducted an opinion poll on Tuesday, asking Twitter followers if the benefits of Senator Bernie Sanders’ (I-VT) Medicare for all legislation would “outweigh the costs.”“Bernie Sanders’ ‘Medicare for all’ bill estimated to cost $32.6 trillion, new study says. Would the benefits outweigh the costs?”Bernie Sanders' 'Medicare for all' bill estimated to cost $32.6 trillion, new study says. Would the benefits outweigh the costs?— FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) July 31, 2018And the result was a bit of a surprise, no doubt, for the conservative outlet. Of more than 31,000 people who responded, 73 percent said Yes – that the benefits of a single-payer health care system in the United States would outweigh the projected cost of $32.6 trillion over ten years.Twenty-seven percent of respondents said No.Sanders didn’t miss a beat.Even a Koch brothers-funded attempt to trash Medicare for All can't hide the truth: Medicare for All will lead to a $2 TRILLION REDUCTION in national health expenditures over 10 years. Thats trillion with a T. https://t.co/eOfd29cDoa— Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) July 30, 2018Neither did actor Rob Delaney.Its not research, its Koch-funded propaganda that STILL says its a net SAVINGS. https://t.co/1tNCKShuxq— rob delaney (@robdelaney) July 30, 2018Nor Bonnie Castillo, executive director of National Nurses, the largest organization of registered nurses in the United States.13,000 people participated in Fox & Friends #MedicareForAll poll – a majority say YES to healthcare for all!THE BENEFITS: Guaranteed medical care, dental, vision and hearing, for all Americans, free at the point-of-care.THE SAVINGS: $2 trillion over 10 years. #TuesdayThoughts https://t.co/ZyrNho79UM— Bonnie Castillo (@NNUBonnie) July 31, 2018The $32.6 trillion figure was the result of a study funded by the billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, who have long advocated forabolishing Medicare and Medicaid.The George Mason University-led study found that the “U.S. could insure 30 million more Americans and virtually eliminate out-of-pocket health care expenses,” said Matt Bruenig of the People’s Policy Project. In his analysis, Bruenig added that Sanders’ plan would also save, yessave,a “whopping $2 trillion in the process” over that same ten-year period.Bruenig also noted that the study’s findings were published to be intentionally misleading.“At first glance, it is strange that the Mercatus center…would publish a report this positive about Medicare for All,” writes Bruenig.“The claim that ‘even the Koch organizations say it will save money while covering everyone’ provides a useful bit of rhetoric for proponents of the policy,” he adds.But the real game here for Mercatus is to bury the money-saving finding in the report’s tables while headlining the incomprehensibly large $32.6 trillion number in order to trick dim reporters into splashing that number everywhere and freaking out.The same can be said for theFox & Friends poll, however, social media saw right through it. In addition to voting overwhelmingly in support of the idea of universal healthcare, Twitter users shared their thoughts on the matter.It’s “smarter.”If the more than $3 trillion a year that universal healthcare would cost would be spent on ways to prevent health ailments it would be smarter. Like water and good pipes across America. Higher food standards. Hell for a small fraction of that everybody in America could be fed.— Jason Gastrich (@jasonagastrich) July 31, 2018Medicare for all is a “bargaincompared to what they would pay through private insurance and would be much better coverage.” Canadians would know, eh.The yes voters are smart enough to know that that $36t is a bargain compared to what they would pay through private insurance and would be much better coverage.— Bill the Canadian  (@Can_Skeptic_Wm) July 31, 2018In Canada we have single payer and in total pay much less than most Americans do for private insurance ACA or not. And it's better care unless you're really wealthy. Since I'll never be that wealthy I'm very happy with what I get.— Bill the Canadian  (@Can_Skeptic_Wm) July 31, 2018Our market-based system is a “failure,” according to others.US HC is an example of open market failure. Lobbyism has delivered a system of cartel & monopolistic companies spending $3.3T/yr (2017) @ 17.9% of GDP for poorer outcomes compared to the rest of the West. A single payer system as per Canada, Switzerland, etc could save >$1T/yr— J Shepherd (@brainbootcamp) August 1, 2018UK's NHS budget 124.7bn ($163.53bn). US population 4.9 time larger. So would cost $800.7bn (1/40th of your quoted figure) to provide NHS level care for everyone. Either US healthcare is hugely ineffecient or that's going to be some amazing healthcare.— Andy (@nugent) August 1, 2018Followers also cited the study, which concluded that the benefits of Medicare for all would outweigh the costs.	Liberal
As with his stance on Russian cyber threats, President Donald Trump vacillates on his ties to his former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well as his opinion of Manafort’s character.On the President’s Twitter account, Manafort plays both villain and victim ever since his implication and indictment in the Mueller Russia investigation.The trial of Paul Manafort began Tuesday, July 31, 2018. In Wednesday’s Trump morning tweets, Manafort assumed both roles. First, Manafort was a bad hombre the government failed to warn the President about.Paul Manafort worked for Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole and many other highly prominent and respected political leaders. He worked for me for a very short time. Why didnt government tell me that he was under investigation. These old charges have nothing to do with Collusion – a Hoax! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018But two hours later, Manafort played victim to the same government Trump called out in his prior tweet. In the second daily mention for Manafort, Trump states:Looking back on history, who was treated worse, Alfonse[sic] Capone, legendary mob boss, killer and Public Enemy Number One, or Paul Manafort, political operative & Reagan/Dole darling, now serving solitary confinement – although convicted of nothing? Where is the Russian Collusion?”Looking back on history, who was treated worse, Alfonse Capone, legendary mob boss, killer and Public Enemy Number One, or Paul Manafort, political operative & Reagan/Dole darling, now serving solitary confinement – although convicted of nothing? Where is the Russian Collusion? Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018The second tweet had people perplexed. Several questioned why the President would want to associate the name of a man he’s known for decades with a notorious criminal, even if it was to show Manafort in a positive light.Unusual for a president to compare his former campaign manager to Al Capone. https://t.co/tMAvAgwvgR Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) August 1, 2018and now to argue for the good character and sterling reputation of my indicted former campaign chairman by comparing him to [checks notes] Al Capone Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) August 1, 2018If youre comparing your Former Campaign Chairman to Al Capone, youre losing. https://t.co/PuBdJnYKEQ Millennial Politics (@MillenPolitics) August 1, 2018Who refers to Al Capone by his full first name? Also, it’s Alphonse, not Alfonse, not that any of this matters. Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) August 1, 2018“This is worse than what they did to Al Capone!” is a GREAT way not to sound like you’re a character on The Sopranos https://t.co/TJWEfNLW4J James Poniewozik (@poniewozik) August 1, 2018“I don’t know, we’re kind of on shaky ground comparing Trump people to mafia people”“Sir, he just compared his campaign chairman to Al Capone”“What?”“Look”“Shit.” https://t.co/zscp2svKz4 Oliver Willis (@owillis) August 1, 2018“I’m simply comparing the man who ran my presidential campaign to a serial murderer who drenched the country in blood for years on end.” Oliver Willis (@owillis) August 1, 2018While others were surprised to find out why Alphonse “Al” Capone was trending on social media.*sees Al Capone trending, and hopes @GeraldoRivera has found another vault**is let down* Viceroy Craig (@CraigHaasis) August 1, 2018But one Twitter user put forward a pretty solid theory for the unusual comparison.I bet you $1000 there was an Al Capone documentary on TV this morning. https://t.co/iIOFeghJaa Jim Hamilton (@Jim_Hamilton) August 1, 2018Still others in the Twittersphere decided to provide some facts on Al Capone for the President’s perusal.	Liberal
Many Americans may be desensitized to President Donald Trump’s frequent ire toward the press by now, but the hatred for so-called “fake news” networks and for reporters that Trump has sown in his supporters since the start of his campaign becomes disturbingly clear at the president’s rallies.This was the case at Trump’s rally in Tampa, Florida Tuesday night, where a mass of Trump supporters heckled CNN’s Jim Acosta with taunts of “traitor” and “liar” as he stood on a podium to cover the rally for CNN. Eventually, Acosta could hardly hear his own voice.This is whats happening at the Trump rally in Tampa as @Acosta does a live shot. Folks booing, shouting traitor, and youre a liar. pic.twitter.com/aUoUF4cwcB— Ali Vitali (@alivitali) July 31, 2018Acosta’s reaction to the ravenous supporters, however, was that of an honorable journalist seeking truth: He engaged them and faced their questions.This stands in stark contrast to the current administration, who only held three White House Press Briefings last month and whose leader refused sixteen questions in six days. Acosta himself said he took more questions at the rally than the president had taken from the press.It was great chatting with all the Trump supporters in Tampa tonight. I took more questions from them than the president has taken from the press lately.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 1, 2018He shared similar sentiments during the rally with CNN News Anchor Anderson Cooper:And its amazing, Anderson. Youre hearing some of the insults being hurled at us right now. Ive been talking to some of these folks this evening, even though theyre being pretty negative towards us right now. I answered a bunch of questions from some of these Trump supporters here about all sorts of things, a lot more questions than the President has taken from us in recent days, Anderson.His integrity did not go unnoticed.After each live shot, @Acosta would walk down and politely talk to the people who just heckled him.  He talked to one group for at least 15 minutes. pic.twitter.com/J26nlxfD6k— Christopher Heath (@CHeathWFTV) August 1, 2018Attendees at Trump rally line up behind Jim @Acosta live shot to scream at him CNN sucks tell the truth and liar He calmly spoke to them when he was done pic.twitter.com/bLuZ4ZpfiB— Emily Goodin (@Emilylgoodin) July 31, 2018https://twitter.com/peacemomma67/status/1024497607828226049Youre a class act, @Acosta. More than I can say about most of the people in that arena in their two minutes hate (more like two hours). https://t.co/nXoBhcQAxY— Max Boot (@MaxBoot) August 1, 2018The aggression of the supporters, however, is an example of what can happen when a president focuses his energy on constructing an enemy rather than uniting a country.	Liberal
On July 26, 2018, reports surfaced that the Department of Justice’s Special Counsel examined Twitter records of President Donald Trump.Their review looked for evidence directly from the President that he pressured Justice Department or law enforcement officials to end the Russian election interference investigation led by Republican law enforcement veteran Robert Mueller.But less than a week later, Trump gave the Mueller team more to look at.In a Wednesday morning tweet, the President stated:..This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further.”..This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018In May 2017, Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from the investigation due to potential conflict of interest. His Republican Deputy and fellow Trump appointee, Rod Rosenstein, tapped former FBI director Mueller to head the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and any ties to the Trump campaign.This is a first. Trump directs his attorney general to end the Russia investigation. https://t.co/zshFQ2dUpY Kaitlan Collins (@kaitlancollins) August 1, 2018After the May 2017 firing of FBI director James Comey, allegations of Trump pressuring the FBI and DoJ to drop the investigation surfaced during congressional hearings. This pressure from the President, if substantiated, could qualify as obstruction of justice.The President of the United States just called on his Attorney General to put an end to an investigation in which the President, his family and campaign may be implicated.This is an attempt to obstruct justice hiding in plain sight. America must never accept it. https://t.co/F8b6a0IGOh Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) August 1, 2018The law defines obstruction of justice as:the crime or act of willfully interfering with the process of justice and law especially by influencing, threatening, harming, or impeding a witness, potential witness, juror, or judicial or legal officer or by furnishing false information in or otherwise impeding an investigation or legal process”Wednesday morning’s tweet appears as a less than subtle message directed at the head of the Department of Justice, AG Sessions. It was one in a series of five tweets where the President again painted the Mueller investigation as a baseless witch hunt.Either i) we’re at the Mueller investigation crisis point or ii) we’re about to witness a federal cabinet officer ignoring a written & published directive from the president on grounds “Oh, the president just says things, none of us pay attention, he’s not really in charge” David Frum (@davidfrum) August 1, 2018But as of the end of July, 2018, 32 individuals and 3 businesses were indicted, with several guilty pleas and one sentencing with others currently on trial. The Trump administration also revealed over the course of the year that they communicated and met with Russian representatives including at least one admitted Russian operative.The first two tweets quote frequent Fox News guest and celebrity lawyer Alan Dershowitz.	Liberal
During a campaign rally in Tampa Florida last night in support of Florida Republican gubernatorial candidate Ron DeSantis, President Donald Trump insinuated that voter fraud is a problem in American elections (it’s not). After calling for people to be required to have voter IDs, Trump made a startlingly odd claim involving IDs and grocery stores.“Only American citizens should vote in American elections,” Trump groaned. “The time has come for voter ID, like everything else.”As applause thundered through the Florida State Fairgrounds Expo Hall, Trump expanded on the necessity of having an ID – by claiming photo IDs are required to buy groceries.Trump says you need a photo ID to buy groceries. pic.twitter.com/B4Nd0S645M— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 1, 2018“You know if you go out and you wanna buy groceries, you need a picture on a card,” thepresident proclaimed, hinting that the billionaire has never actually set foot in a grocery store. “You need ID.” pic.twitter.com/o6Zg9E0fm6— iamdanny_boy (@DannyDanquah) August 1, 2018No, a photo ID is not required to buy groceries.Columnist Judd Leggumtore apart Trump’s incorrect assumption.(You don't need a photo ID to buy groceries)— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 1, 2018Leggum added that in any other time, “this would be a gaffe that would hound him for years.”Before Trump, this would be a defining gaffe that would hound him for years. Remember when John Kerry was pilloried as "out of touch" because someone took a picture of him windsurfing?— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 1, 2018Of course, these are not normal times, and Trump is not a typical president. Leggumcompared Trump’s remarks to the time President George H.W. Bush was criticized for being “out of touch” because he didn’t know how to work a grocery store scanner. The story made the front page of the New York Times in 1992.When George H.W. Bush appeared unfamiliar with a grocery store scanner in 1992, it MADE THE FRONT PAGE OF THE NEW YORK TIMES pic.twitter.com/M5AhGm5Jqh— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) August 1, 2018Fun fact: Bush didn’t need an ID.This is akin to inArrested Development when Lucille Bluth asks: “how much can a single banana cost, $10?”Twitter dragged Trump’s words and accused him of being out of touch.Cashier: Hi, welcome to Piggly Wiggly, did you find everything you needed today?Me: Ya I'm just getting these strawberries and some bread.Cashier: That will be $9.17. Can I see your ID?Me: Oh man I forgot it!Cashier: Sorry sir, I can't sell you these items w/o an ID.— Cheeba Jones (@CheebaJones) August 1, 2018“Out of touch much?”Out of touch much? I wonder how his salt of the earth middle American supporter will feel about that?— Sandra Adair (@sadair20) August 1, 2018But will Trump’s supporters care? Probably not.Wont care. They dont have critical thinking skills— Ashley Stephans (@StephansAshley) August 1, 2018It’s not like they buy groceries or anything.But surely they have experiential knowledge? Some of them must by groceries, surely.— Time's Up – ResistPersistWitch #OptOut (@NannaHannah) August 1, 2018They do buy groceries. But they have convinced themselves that trump does no wrong. Hes their messiah. Even though most of his policies will hurt them— Ashley Stephans (@StephansAshley) August 1, 2018Trump has “never gone grocery shopping in his life.” Quite possible.https://twitter.com/sheLLbeLL_xo/status/1024464831007662080How long until the president’s supporters begin further drilling this false narrative into the national dialogue?I personally cant wait to be told by all the MAGAS how you definitely need a photo ID to buy groceries, they need a photo ID to buy groceries every single time, were all stupid for not knowing you need a photo ID, and something and Hillary and Qanon.— Trump's Micropenis (@micropenistrump) August 1, 2018Some people hypothesized why Trump may have needed an ID at a grocery store – if he’s ever been to one.	Liberal
President Donald Trump held a rally in Tampa, Florida Tuesday night and his supporters demonstrated the damage the president’s relentless attacks on the free press have done.Thousands of Trump fans were lined up all day in the steamy Florida sun, eager to participate in what is sure to be an echo chamber of falsehoods and attacks on the media.The crowd’s behavior toward one veteran journalist offered a dark preview of what would surely come.CNN’s Jim Acosta was jeered by Trump supporters as he was standing on a podium reporting about the event.Rallying cries of boos, people shouting “traitor,” and “you’re a liar” were lobbed at Acosta.This is whats happening at the Trump rally in Tampa as @Acosta does a live shot. Folks booing, shouting traitor, and youre a liar. pic.twitter.com/aUoUF4cwcB— Ali Vitali (@alivitali) July 31, 2018Then the crowd began chanting, “CNN sucks!” at Acosta as he struggled to hear his own words.@realDonaldTrump supporters protest against @CNN reporter @Acosta at @realDonaldTrump rally in Tampa, Florida. @TB_Times pic.twitter.com/mpArxHW9Q2— Octavio Jones (@OctavioJones) July 31, 2018The president hadn’t even arrived yet, and social media was blowing up with people wondering why the media continues to give Trump and his supporters airtime.STOP covering these propaganda rallies live.— Amy Smith (@asmith702) July 31, 2018Hate rallies, why is the media covering them? No one cares except the ill informed, hateful #cult45 members.— Bastard#45 (@an13659633) July 31, 2018Disgusting. Its a cult.— dawnvalentim (@dawnvalentim) July 31, 2018@Acosta pack up and leave this is not new worthy, @CNN we wont watch our media/freedom of speech abused and attacked by Trump or his cult.— Delfina Valdez (@DelfinaValdez8) July 31, 2018Why send reporters? He says the same thing every time and calls the press names and his followers do this. Send someone to record it and if something *exciting* happens, it'll be recorded and you can show it/hear it.— Caron Craig (@CaronCraig) July 31, 2018Thankfully, the Internet has Acosta’s back.The majority of Americans strongly support you @Acosta— oneiroi (@lisa_sinatra) July 31, 2018They need glasses! Jim Acosta doesnt look like Trump at all.— hg murray (@spottydoggie) July 31, 2018@Acosta is Everyman in America right not who is asking for the truth about conspiracy. Facing mob tactics from an actual mob boss president, yet he stands his ground.— Thirtysixmiles (@thirtysixmiles) July 31, 2018Hang in there brother.—  (@datwyler) July 31, 2018A lot of Americans are with you Jim…— Becca Marshall (@BeccaMarshall12) July 31, 2018Trump has repeatedly referred to the media as “fake news” and “the real enemy of the people.”The FAKE NEWS media (failing @nytimes, @NBCNews, @ABC, @CBS, @CNN) is not my enemy, it is the enemy of the American People!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2017Had a very good and interesting meeting at the White House with A.G. Sulzberger, Publisher of the New York Times. Spent much time talking about the vast amounts of Fake News being put out by the media & how that Fake News has morphed into phrase, Enemy of the People. Sad!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2018Trump’s onslaught of attacks on the media all have one thing in common: it’s “fake news” when coverage is negative.Frankly, that’s Trump’s own fault and one can only imagine how much worse his attacks mayget as the president’s litany of scandals begin to close in on him.More importantly, Trump has demonstrated complete apathy concerning the safety of journalists.When five people were killed in an Annapolis, Maryland newsroom last month in a targeted massacre of Capital Gazette staff, Trump feigned sympathy for the victims and their families…Prior to departing Wisconsin, I was briefed on the shooting at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. Thank you to all of the First Responders who are currently on the scene.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 28, 2018Before going any further today, I want to address the horrific shooting that took place yesterday at the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis, Maryland. This attack shocked the conscience of our Nation, and filled our hearts with grief… pic.twitter.com/LALXGhk04b— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2018…and then less than a week later returned to his “fake news” diatribe. What makes this particular tweet even richer is that North Korea has been ramping up its production of intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of reaching the United States.We know where the “fake news” is coming from, Mr. President.Many good conversations with North Korea-it is going well! In the meantime, no Rocket Launches or Nuclear Testing in 8 months. All of Asia is thrilled. Only the Opposition Party, which includes the Fake News, is complaining. If not for me, we would now be at War with North Korea!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 3, 2018Thus, concerns over the safety of members of the press abounded on Twitter.	Liberal
Tuesday, during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the fallout from the Trump administration’s zero tolerance policy, Connecticut Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal began his allotted time by thanking those Trump administration and agency officials gathered for their patience and for the service of the men and women in law enforcement.Officials from U.S. Border Patrol (USBP), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Department of Justice (DoJ) and Health and Human Services (DHHS) attended to answer Senator’s questions.The policy change created by President Donald Trump then enacted by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and enforced by Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen resulted in thousands of children being separated from their families. The administration was ordered by a federal court to reunite families, but missed the court imposed deadlines.Senator Blumenthal’s first question to those panelists gathered who worked on the implementation and enforcement of the zero tolerance policy was,Who here thinks that zero tolerance has been a success? You can just raise your hand if you think it’s been a success.”All of the panelists kept their hands down.Watch the full video of Senator Richard Blumenthal’s questions here:Panel members included the acting chief of USBP and the head of ICEs deportation unit on behalf of Homeland Security, director of the DoJs office for immigration review and the coordinating official of DHHS family reunification efforts.After none of those agency experts endorsed the zero tolerance policy, Blumenthal asked,Who thinks the family separation policy has been a success?”Again, no one on the panel of Trump administration experts thought the policy successful. For the Senator’s next question, he asked the panel,Who can tell me who is responsible, which public official, which member of this administration is responsible for zero tolerance and family separation?”The panelists remained silent, while some looked down at the table before them or shuffled papers. So Blumenthal asked,“Can anyone tell me? Whose responsible? Nobody knows?”Finally, after an extended awkward silence, the DoJ panelist replied that the “zero tolerance prosecution policy, the memorandum, was issued by the Attorney General on April 6, 2018.”Blumenthal however wanted clarification, asking if Sessions acted alone or if he acted on behalf of the Trump administration.The DoJ representative only added that the April 2018 memo was an extension of a 2017 memo also signed by Sessions.So the Connecticut legislator asked instead since none of the panelists thought the zero tolerance or family separation policies were successful if anyone stated their concerns, at any time, to anyone.	Liberal
Former basketball superstar Kareem Abdul-Jabbar penned a blistering Op-Ed in The Guardian on Tuesday in which the NBA’s all-time leading scorer excoriated the NFL’s decision to penalize football players who refuse to stand for the national anthem.An open letter to the NFL's owners | Kareem Abdul-Jabbar https://t.co/Qw8Wy2VyYA— Guardian Australia (@GuardianAus) July 31, 2018Abdul-Jabbar opens by saying the NFL, which has been rife with scandals ranging from domestic abuse to an epidemic of concussions, has “made it worse” by implementing a “childish policyabout how grown men must respond to the national anthem.”Abdul-Jabbar is referring to a policy enacted in May that requires players to either stand for the national anthem on the field or remain in the locker room should they feel the desire to ‘take a knee’ or otherwise protest the song.The NFL issued its mandate partly due to pressure coming from President Donald Trump, who has on numerous occasions called for players who kneel to be banned from the league altogether.“You stood at the precipice of history tasked with deciding whether to choose the principles of the US Constitution over profits of commerce, patriotism over pandering, morality over mob mentality, promoting social justice over pushing beers,” Abdul-Jabbar wrote.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar hammers NFL owners forcing players to stand during anthem: "Opposite of patriotism" https://t.co/UIHkbPZV0Z pic.twitter.com/vfnlrLEtgW— The Hill (@thehill) July 31, 2018“Courage, it seems, is expected only of players.”Abdul-Jabbar then alluded to Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones’ “kneejerk reaction” last week, when Jones announced that all Cowboys players must stand for the anthem or face fines. Trump was elated.Way to go Jerry. This is what the league should do! https://t.co/yEP1jK57xi— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 27, 2018It was former San Francisco 49er quarterback Colin Kaepernick who first took a knee in 2016 to protest police brutality and the apparent institutional racism that plagues America’s criminal justice system. The issuehas metastasized into a national debate – free speech versus [forced] patriotism.“The worst thing about that isnt that two years later were still debating whether players have the right to protest,” Abdul-Jabbar lamented, adding that “not much has changed regarding what Kaepernick was protesting.”Thank you @kaj33 https://t.co/1wRSqBVOQB— Omar Suleiman (@omarsuleiman504) July 31, 2018Abdul-Jabbar cited statistics which show that “although racial minorities are only 37.4% of the population, they account for 62.7% of unarmed people killed by police.”He said: “Given all that and much, much more, taking a knee during the national anthem is the epitome of restraint.”Absolutely!  https://t.co/3qPYul6yn1— SLP (@Soldiersdaughtr) July 31, 2018Here’s the real kicker:“If it were white people suffering those same statistics, you wouldnt even play the national anthem. Then again, you wouldnt have had the opportunity to become owners in the first place.”Abdul-Jabbar noted that not all NFL team owners are cowering behind the “false flag of patriotism.”New York Jets chairman and CEO Christopher Johnson said the team would not discipline a player who protests and he would pay the leagues fine. Giants co-owner Steve Tisch has also said that his players will not be punished for protesting during the anthem.He then concluded his letter with a total takedown of the policy penalizing players for exercising their rights to free speech.	Liberal
On July 31, via their online newsroom,Facebook Head of Cybersecurity Policy, Nathaniel Gleicher, announced:About two weeks ago we identified the first of eight Pages and 17 profiles on Facebook, as well as seven Instagram accounts, that violate our ban on coordinated inauthentic behavior.”The announcement by Gleicher falls under a subheading of “What We’ve Found So Far” in Facebook’s full announcement, “Removing Bad Actors on Facebook.” According to the announcement:“Today we removed 32 Pages and accounts from Facebook and Instagram because they were involved in coordinated inauthentic behavior. This kind of behavior is not allowed on Facebook because we dont want people or organizations creating networks of accounts to mislead others about who they are, or what theyre doing.”“Were still in the very early stages of our investigation and dont have all the facts  including who may be behind this,” the announcement states. “But we are sharing what we know today given the connection between these bad actors and protests that are planned in Washington next week.”Its clear that whoever set up these accounts went to much greater lengths to obscure their true identities than the Russian-based Internet Research Agency (IRA) has in the past… We face determined, well-funded adversaries who will never give up and are constantly changing tactics.”Facebook reported that “more than 290,000 accounts followed at least one of these [8] Pages” with four seemingly liberal leaning”Aztlan Warriors,” “Black Elevation,” “Mindful Being,” and “Resisters” pages having the bulk of followers while the remaining four had 0-10 followers. The pages also made 9,500 posts, bought 150 ads worth $11,000 and created 30 events.“Resisters” created a counter-protest slated for Washington DC on August 10-12 then invited five legitimate groups to join them. Facebook took the event down and notified the other pages and is in the process of notifying those individuals who indicated “Going” on the event page.The removed event centered on a planned “Unite the Right 2” rally that weekend in the nation’s capital.Efforts to amplify the “Abolish ICE” message were also found in the“coordinated political influence campaign.”The cybersecurity team shared their findings with “US law enforcement agencies, Congress, other technology companies, and the Atlantic Councils Digital Forensic Research Lab.” Back in May, Facebook announced partnering with the Atlantic Council to “prevent our service from being abused during elections.”According to congressional sources, in a series of briefings on Capitol Hill, Facebook officials stated they “found evidence of some connections between these accounts” and accounts run by Russian hackers and intelligence officers during the 2016 presidential campaign.“Resisters” interacted with one of the Russian Internet Research Agency accounts already disabled by Facebook back in 2017.The latest batch of “bad actors” activities contained similarities to the Internet Research Agency, but disguised their efforts better using VPNs, internet phone services and third parties to purchase their ads.This latest campaign focused again on divisive social issues, like the Russian interference campaign did in 2016fomenting discord in United States politics and the Brexit campaign in the United Kingdom.While Facebook’s announcement frequently pauses to emphasize their increased efforts in cybersecurity since the Brexit and U.S. presidential interference, people online are critical of the breach reaching the level it did. A sentiment they expressed online.	Liberal
In a result that came as a surprise to many, Fox News took second place in a new poll as to which TV news sources Americans trust most.The poll, conducted by Research Intelligencer, asked over four thousand people to rate TV news sources that they consumed more than three times a week in order to gauge which networks Americans felt were most trustworthy.Fox News, with 87 percent on the trust scale, was second only to BBC with 90 percent.Fox News has a long-documented history of routinely lying to its viewers in an effort to make Republican personalities and policies more favorable to the American public. According to Politifact, 59 percent of claims on Fox News fall somewhere between blatantly false and mostly false.In the past, those on the network have claimed that rape doesn’t occur on college campusesand stoked false claims that former Democratic National Committee staffer was murdered as revenge for leaking DNC documents.Rounding out the Top 5 most trusted TV news networks were PBS in third with 86 percent, Bloomberg in fourth place with 81 percent, followed by MSNBC at 80 percent.Americans across social media were baffled as to how a network that lies so recklessly could be so trusted, fearing what it may mean for the country as a whole.this is unfreaking believable – FAKE Fox news as one of TVs most trusted brands and ahead of PBS, that is not real!  No Way!BBC, Fox News, PBS ranked as TV's most trusted news brands https://t.co/6ojDJ4SHeg— Rocco Cocco (@racoccojr) July 31, 2018How can Fox News be branded "trustworthy" when it's anathema to the truth?  Are people THAT dependent on lies?— Chris Morris (@davincimorrisco) July 31, 2018I'm sorry… did you say @FoxNews? pic.twitter.com/ZYBJmO9n4l— Eric Jennings (@SlapdashSanity) July 31, 2018That Fox News is considered the number 2 most trusted news brand in America is a clear indication of the truly dire situation our country is in. Fox News is the propaganda arm of the Trumpist Party, constantly shilling for this administration, not an actual news service at all! https://t.co/nyhzJZIR3m— Maurizio Passariello (@mpassariello) July 31, 2018 pic.twitter.com/2Zwr1QW19E— Smarie (@ShawnRobb3) July 31, 2018 I dont think the world understands how fd we are. We are dealing with the dumbest, most brainwashed zombies on the planet. There is no end in sight. How anyone can trust Fox News after the last two years is terrifying.— David Dennison (@TheLastCLEFan) July 31, 2018Most trusted doesnt mean most accurate.— (((Nick))) (@skorpyos) July 31, 2018The poll also asked Americans about their trust in President Donald Trump.	Liberal
Former FBI chief of staff and U.S. Attorney Chuck Rosenberg said that “collusion” is “absolutely a crime” during an interview onMeet the Press DailyMonday afternoon. Rosenberg’s remarks countered those ofRudy Giuliani and President Trump himself who have spent the past couple of days insisting that “collusion is not a crime.”“Collusion is a crime. We just happen to call it something else, we call it conspiracy, but it is absolutely a crime.”WATCH: Chuck Rosenberg: "Giuliani makes absolutely no sense" #MTPDaily pic.twitter.com/sWqcSHVyIy— Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) July 30, 2018Rosenberg served under former FBI Director James Comey, whom Trump fired in May of 2017. This led to the appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his investigation into possible obstruction of justice by Trump for Comey’s firing. Mueller is also probing whether Trump’s campaign participated in a criminal conspiracy with Russian intelligence to sway the 2016 presidential election.“You probably wont find the crime bank heist in the criminal code but bank robbery is a crime too, and so I am sort of perplexed that it has come down to synonyms,” Rosenberg explained. He said that “collusion” is actually a crime – “conspiracy.”Rosenberg then tore into Giuliani’s attempt to confuse the public with “synonyms.”“If these folks dont know that collusion and conspiracy are synonyms for one another and this is a legal strategy,” Rosenberg added, “then they might want to consider changing horses in this race.”Bang on. MSM need to stand up and assert that "collusion" is a synonym for conspiracy, like bank heist is the same as bank robbery. If all Trump/Giuliani have is squawking about the word, they're sunk. Courts have thesauruses. @cnn @msnbc @abc @nbc @cbs— Barend Hamm (@BarendHamm) July 30, 2018Earlier in the day on Monday, Giuliani made the media rounds giving borderline incoherent defenses of the president.“I have been sitting here looking in the federal code trying to find collusion as a crime,” Giuliani said on Fox & Friends.“Collusion is not a crime.”There is no statute covering "colluding" with a foreign power, but it is illegal to conspire to violate laws against not only hacking, but foreign participation in elections. https://t.co/msksverlVw https://t.co/lUp8hGPwiq— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 30, 2018Giuliani later added: “My client didn’t do it, and even if he did it, it’s not a crime.”Giuliani is calling into Fox News right now to clarify his collusion comments from this morning: "My client didn't do it, and even if he did it, it's not a crime." pic.twitter.com/4Lem500Wuj— Aidan McLaughlin (@aidnmclaughlin) July 30, 2018Later, on CNN, Giuliani reiterated his point.“I don’t even know if that’s a crime, colluding about Russians,” the former New York City mayor said before switching gears to the cyber attack on the 2016 election. “You start analyzing the crime  the hacking is the crime. The president didn’t hack. He didnt pay them for hacking.”Giuliani: "I don't even know if that's a crime, colluding about Russians. You start analyzing the crime  the hacking is the crime. The president didn't hack pic.twitter.com/GTnUxXBeTL— CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) July 30, 2018On Tuesday morning, Trump reiterated Giuliani’s line of defense:Collusion is not a crime, but that doesnt matter because there was No Collusion (except by Crooked Hillary and the Democrats)!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 31, 2018Lest we forget – candidate Trump explicitly asked Russia to hack into the DNC server and to try and dig up Hillary Clinton’s emails.Trump on July 27, 2016 asking a foreign gov for assistance"Russia, if you're listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing"Now we know that the criminal Russian military hacking operation of Hillary Clinton began that night. pic.twitter.com/eK3NSN2265— RiotWomenn (@riotwomennn) July 29, 2018That same night, July 27, 2017, DNC servers were breached and emails between Clinton campaign officials were leaked to the press by Wikileaks.Incidentally, Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort’s trial begins today. One of the charges Manafort is facing is “conspiracy against the United States.”WATCH: Former Senior FBI Official Chuck Rosenberg says, "collusion is a crime. We just happen to call it something else. We call it conspiracy." #MTPDailyhttps://t.co/ZKeuv6e6pf pic.twitter.com/d0Lo3dyuoM— Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) July 31, 2018Twitter had its way with Giuliani and his foundering legal spin.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is again alarming citizens and lawmakers alike with one of his latest tweets. This time, the president tweeted that he’s consulted the NRA about blocking the distributions of blueprints for 3-D printed guns.This is especially notable because the Trump administration recently undid government restrictions on distributing the blueprints online. Though the federal government had been fighting to maintain the ban in court, it changed its tune and reached a settlement allowing the plaintiff to post plans for 3-D printed guns. Despite his own administration being instrumental in allowing the sale of the plans, Trump seemed to question the sale, assuring that he’d already consulted the National Rifle Association.I am looking into 3-D Plastic Guns being sold to the public. Already spoke to NRA, doesnt seem to make much sense!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 31, 2018The 3-D printing of guns poses a widespread threat to the public because anyone with access to a 3-D printer can distribute guns with no regulation. The guns also don’t have serial numbers, making them virtually impossible to trace. Because the metal firing ring is the only part that isn’t plastic, they’re easy to slip through a metal detector as well.The plaintiff with whom the Trump administration settled the case allowing the sale of the prints was Cody Wilson, who’s posted demonstrations of the 3-D printed guns manufactured by his company, Defense Distributed.Lawmakers and gun safety organizations were aghast that Trump seemed unaware his administration helped allow Defense Distributed to sell plans for 3-D printed guns, and by the fact that Trump was consulting a virulently pro-gun organization on how to proceed with the policy.Amazing how proud he is to advertise that the NRA calls all the shots. Stakes are clear this November. If you want the gun lobby in charge of gun policy, vote Republican. If you want to do something about violence in America, vote em out. https://t.co/mkvd3Q0nzG— Chris Murphy (@ChrisMurphyCT) July 31, 2018Thanks for confirming youre bought and paid for by the @NRA, but we already knew. https://t.co/0cnL3WoJ7C— Gavin Newsom (@GavinNewsom) July 31, 2018If you've ever doubted whether the .@NRA has too much political power, here's the President of the United States admitting he checked with them as to whether he should take a common-sense public safety action. This is why we fight. #NoRA pic.twitter.com/M0oSCpnsxz— #NoRA (@NoRA4USA) July 31, 2018Celebrities and concerned citizens weighed in as well, without mincing words.Do you need the NRAs permission?Are you their bitch?Are you the President?Stand up and lead… Coward. https://t.co/YaJKXclm84— Billy Baldwin (@BillyBaldwin) July 31, 2018President Trump doesn't get it!The issue isn't that "3-D Plastic Guns" are "being sold to the public"The issue is that anyone can download a 3-D Printable AR-15 and then print it on a 3D printer and go kills someone.This includes terrorists, criminals and the mentally ill— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) July 31, 2018Yo Ted Nugent &  @GOP @realDonaldTrump These plastic printed guns wont show up on your metal detectors. No more gun free zones for you? Stupid. Right?— Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) July 31, 2018Why are you letting president trump give 3D printed plastic untraceable, undetectable guns to the terrorists?— Chris Patriarca (@ChrisPatriarca) July 31, 2018While many are shocked that such a reckless policy could ever gain so much ground, virtually no one is surprised that Trump is consulting the NRA. There’s a good reason for that.	Liberal
On Monday, July 30, 2018, the Trump administration’s Department of Justice held a Religious Liberty Summit. Under the guidance of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the event hostedthe Alliance Defending Freedom, a conservative Christian advocacy group, and Jack Phillips, the Colorado baker who refused to serve a gay couple in violation of the state’s nondiscrimination law.According to AG Sessions,Lets be frank: Adangerous movement, undetected by many, but real, is now challenging and eroding our great tradition of religious freedom. There can be no doubt, its no little matter. It must be confronted intellectually and politically, and defeated.”Sessions followed up with examples of Christians, operating in the secular world, asked to separate their personal beliefs from the execution of their secular jobs. “We’ve all seen the ordeal faced so bravely by Jack Phillips,” Sessions remarked highlighting the controversial Colorado baker.The United States’ highest level of law enforcement failed, however, to mention any of the increased incidents of violence and vandalism aimed at Jews, Muslims, Sikhs or any other non-Christian faiths.Baptist minister Jonathan Wilson-Hartgrove agreed Tuesday that there is a great danger to freedom in the United States regarding religion. But from his perspective,the threat comes from Christians like Sessions and Phillips.In a piece written for NBC News, Wilson-Hartgrove said:Its time for people who care about the future of democratic society to reclaim the concept of religious liberty.”Both religion & liberty are being redefined by the Trump administration to serve an extreme agenda. Its time for people who care about the future of democratic society to reclaim the concept of religious liberty. https://t.co/edjpK2NT4O— Jonathan Wilson-Hartgrove (@wilsonhartgrove) July 31, 2018He went on:“Plenty of Americans still value the separation of church and state and, along with it, the establishment clauses guarantee of freedom of conscience for all people,” the Baptist minister continues in his NBC News Hot Take. “Outside the circles of the extreme right, religious liberty has long been a progressive value, celebrated by abolitionists, tax resisters, conscientious objectors and religious minorities alike.”So long as an American respects the legal rights of his neighbor, the Constitution promises him the freedom to obey his own conscience when it comes to matters of religious conviction.”And therein lies the issue with the Trump brand of religious liberty and freedom of religion. As Wilson-Hartgrove explains further.	Liberal
United States intelligence agencies believe North Korea is assembling new intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of reaching the American mainland, according to explosive reporting by the Washington Post on Monday.Spy agencies see signs North Korea is still building missiles https://t.co/vWfLiKdtEa— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) July 31, 2018Sources familiar with the intelligence say the North Koreas are working on “at least one and possibly two liquid-fueled ICBMs at a large research facility in Sanumdong,” and that the missiles are a sign that Pyongyang’s pledge to “denuclearize” may have been nothing more than a ruse.“The Sanumdong factory has produced two of North Koreas ICBMs, including the powerfulHwasong-15, the first with a proven range that could allow it to strike the U.S. East Coast,” the Post’s report says.The latest intelligence indicates Trump was likely used as a propaganda tool for the North Koreans, despite his tweets and affirmations of a positive relationship with Kim.From WaPo:Senior North Korean officials have discussed their intention to deceive Washington about the number of nuclear warheads and missiles they have, as well as the types and numbers of facilities, and to rebuff international inspectors, according to intelligence gathered by U.S. agencies.We see them going to work, just as before, said one U.S. official.U.S. President Donald Trump held a summit with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un in Singapore last month, where the two spoke in private and signed a non-binding letter of intent to pursue a future Korean Peninsula free of nuclear weapons. Since then, however, there has been little indication that Kim has ordered a scale down of his country’s pursuit of nuclear weapons.The president was quick to praise Kim and himself in the hours after the summit. Following his return home from the meeting, Trump tweeted: “There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea.”Just landed – a long trip, but everybody can now feel much safer than the day I took office. There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea. Meeting with Kim Jong Un was an interesting and very positive experience. North Korea has great potential for the future!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 13, 2018Earlier this month, the president tweeted he had had “many good conversations with North Korea” and that the “fake news” was “complaining” about what was an obvious lack of effort on the part of Kim’s regime to dismantle its nuclear weapons program. Trump also said that “we would now be at war with North Korea” if it weren’t for him.Many good conversations with North Korea-it is going well! In the meantime, no Rocket Launches or Nuclear Testing in 8 months. All of Asia is thrilled. Only the Opposition Party, which includes the Fake News, is complaining. If not for me, we would now be at War with North Korea!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 3, 2018Dan Rather said “Kim Jong-Un was as convincing as Putin in his denials” about interfering in American elections, which Trumpstillhas trouble accepting as truth.I am shocked- shocked- to find that missile development is going on in Noth Korea! I guess Kim Jong-Un was as convincing as Putin in his denials (as opposed to U.S. intelligence). https://t.co/k6EXJYvPGp— Dan Rather (@DanRather) July 31, 2018He wasn’t alone.BREAKING: The latest satellite images show that North Korea is constructing new missiles, just weeks after the Trump summit.Looks like Trump got played!Thats what happens when you are an egotistical Dotard!— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) July 30, 2018North Korea is making more missiles. More proof Trumps weak. No one takes his empty threats seriously. His North Korea summit obviously meant nothing. It was just more propaganda for a dictator. Just like his treason summit with Putin. Hes a terrifying joke and must resign.— Scott Dworkin (@funder) July 31, 2018If Trump got played by a third-rate dictator with such ease, maybe it would be a good idea to legislate a  recording requirement for his convos with foreign leaders?  Starting with the former head of the KGB-Im sure Trump had the upper-hand in that one  https://t.co/L8AqoTtyCG— Amy Siskind  (@Amy_Siskind) July 30, 2018The North Korea matter should remind you once again that Donald Trump is completely naive when it comes to the blandishments, seductions, foot massages, sloe-eyed glances, perfumed handkerchiefs, flirtatious billets- doux, and long moonlit walks on the beach with dictators.— Rick Wilson (@TheRickWilson) July 30, 2018Dealmaker-in-Chief boasted too soon that North Korea is not messing with their old missiles anymore. Rather they are building new and better missiles. So Rocket Man did not go away for a photo op with Orange Man. Nope. Trump has simply made matters worse!  https://t.co/BNJjU0nLNq pic.twitter.com/eYgpPkVC4X— John Dean (@JohnWDean) July 31, 2018“Kim Jong Un played Trump.”Kim Jong-Un played Trump. But it doesnt matter  because Trump played the U.S. media. Their coverage of the North Korea summit was tantamount to propaganda.Kim is working on NEW missiles.Media should cover the summits failure equally if not more to correct the record.— Kaivan Shroff (@KaivanShroff) July 31, 2018“Who could have seen this coming? Almost everyone except President Trump.”Q: Who could possibly have seen this coming? A: Almost everyone except Pres. Trump. U.S. spy agencies: North Korea is working on new missiles https://t.co/JD7mTR8Tay— Larry Sabato (@LarrySabato) July 31, 2018And it wasn’t just members of the media that were harshly critical of the president.	Liberal
While fallout from the unpopular Republican tax plan continues setting the deficit on a path to reach new highs and Congress already pushing cuts to Veterans programs to cover funding shortfalls President Donald Trump looks to hand another $100 billion tax cut to the wealthiest citizens.But Congress barely managed to push through the last GOP tax cuts for the wealthy. And midterm elections loom just 100 days away.Re-election efforts occupy Republicans in Congress for now. Focusing all their time on another unpopular piece of tax legislation would likely spell the end for several prominent GOP Senators, like Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.But a path to tax cuts remains for the Trump administration: regulation instead of legislation.Embattled Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchinannounced his departmentstudied whether it could allow Americans to account for inflation in determining capital gains tax liabilities.By redefining “cost,” the Treasury Department could allow taxpayers to adjust the initial value of an asset when it sells.If it cant get done through a legislation process, we will look at what tools at Treasury we have to do it on our own and well consider that.”“We are studying that internally,” Mnuchin stated, “and we are also studying the economic costs and the impact on growth.”Capital gains calculations are currently based on actual purchase price versus sale price. The difference, or capital gain, is then taxed.If taxpayers increase the amount they “paid” on the front end, that difference shrinks, as do the taxes owed.To effectively change tax law through Treasury regulation instead of Congress would likely not survive a judicial review. The U.S. Constitution sets out the separation of powers between the three branches of government.The Treasury belongs to the executive branch, charged in the Constitution with enforcing the laws. Only the legislative branch makes laws. The third branch, the judicial branch interprets actions taken by the other branches, ensuring they don’t violate the constitution.Mnuchin emphasized he had yet to determine if bypassing existing tax law could or should be done by the Treasury. But finding a way to reduce capital gains taxes is a longstanding wishlist item for businesses like the Trump Organization where profits come from turning over properties, not creating products or providing services.When Mnuchin’s comments were relayed to Congress, Democratic leaders like New York Senator Chuck Schumer expressed outrage.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s polls have been on a downward spiral since his disastrous summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin, where he sided with the Russian leader over his own intelligence agencies on whether or not Russia meddled with United States elections during the 2016 campaign.First, we saw last week’s Quinnipiac poll showing Trump falling to 38%.President Trump's job approval rating is 38% in the new Quinnipiac poll.82% among Republicans, 7% among Democrats, 32% among independents. pic.twitter.com/PR8R7aWPZJ— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) July 24, 2018And now we have the newGallup poll, which shows Trump losing a net of 6 points in his approval rating since the July 16th Helsinki meeting, dropping to 40% approve and 55% disapprove:NEW: Trump's approval rating dipped down to 40 percent in latest Gallup weekly tracking poll pic.twitter.com/XPOLEjzJtA— Laura Litvan (@LauraLitvan) July 30, 2018The news comes after Trump recently bragged on Twitter about his numbers in an unspecified poll.Thank you to all of my great supporters, really big progress being made. Other countries wanting to fix crazy trade deals. Economy is ROARING. Supreme Court pick getting GREAT REVIEWS. New Poll says Trump, at over 90%, is the most popular Republican in history of the Party. Wow!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2018Many Americans aren’t surprised at Gallup’s findings, including Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA).Gallup has tracked @realDonaldTrump since his relatively small inauguration. On 2/12/17, Trump was at 53% disapproval, 41% approval. About a year and a half later, he is at 55% disapproval, 40% approval. Turns out that sabotaging health care is not a winning issue for the GOP. https://t.co/L8rwd7zlpp— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) July 30, 2018Gallup Poll #s for week off July 23-29. Cartoon for Day # 556; This week's results won't be anything he's bragging about. Fun Fact: since Trump took office, his highest approval in this poll was 45%, which has only happened two weeks so far pic.twitter.com/MjQdZEGkXV— KingOfPies (@RegalPastry) July 30, 2018Finally- some are returning to their real religious values- pastors Point out the evils of this administration— Deb (@DebSunshn) July 30, 2018Others, however, are aghast that the numbers are so high.I cant believe how high it is honestly— Bethany Design (@bethanydesign) July 30, 2018It just doesnt seem possible that 4 out of every 10 people I see out and about approve of this maniac at the helm.— Greg Daake (@gregdaake) July 30, 2018How could it possibly be that high?— Joshua Roberts (@josh_the_red) July 30, 2018However, Democrats shouldn’t begin popping bottles just yet.	Liberal
The United States Embassy in London is having a yard sale, so to speak. And they aren’t alone.Online auctions for surplus property are either ongoing or pending at nine embassies and one consulate in eight countries. The U.S. State Department runs an online auction site to handle all the sales.But why not use ebay or Craigslist? Or just take the items to the local version of Goodwill?Technically, all property of the United States government belongs to the purchaser; namely, U.S. taxpayers.This is why you can’t pull up to your local military base and buy surplus items. Disposal of surplus property is tightly regulated in each area of the government.The US Foreign Affairs Manual covers the regulations for embassies and consulates. It states that if U.S. property based abroad is not returned to the U.S., it may be sold if in the best interest of the US government with proceeds going to the U.S. Treasury.The Guardian, a British based paper, reported on the London auction in their Monday edition, highlighting items such as toilet paper which the London Embassy has many rolls to sell. And toilet paper is just the tip of the iceberg.But before you decide to bid, there’s a few facts you should know.Items must be bid upon and paid for in the local currency……and picked up on site.Unless you fancy a trip to Yerevan, Armenia, or Tirana, Albania, or Lisbon, Portugal and exchanging your U.S. dollars for Serbian Dinar or Turkish Lira orUkrainian , best not bid. Any property not picked up in a timely manner will be disposed of and no refunds granted.And the items? Many can only be generously described as junk, as the following examples show.	Liberal
Florida Republican gubernatorial candidate Ron DeSantis released a bizarre ad Monday morning in which he enlisted his wife to show all the ways he is supportive of President Donald Trump.Listen to my wife Casey, shes always right. pic.twitter.com/lGcOHc8wEK— Ron DeSantis (@RonDeSantisFL) July 30, 2018The ad opens with an introduction from DeSantis’s wife, Casey: “Everyone knows my husband Ron DeSantis is endorsed by President Trump, but he’s also an amazing dad.” The ad attempts to correlate good parenting and supporting Trump.The rest of the ad lacks any discernible campaign platform and could easily be mistaken for satire. Such is 2018.This is like an @nbcsnl skit. What a joke @RonDeSantisFL— Tubs Brown Melick (@John_Melick) July 30, 2018“Build the wall,” DeSantis says to his toddler daughter, Madison, shown playing with toy building blocks. DeSantis “reads stories,” his wife says, just before the camera cuts to the congressman readingThe Art of the Dealto an infant.“Then Mr. Trump said, ‘you’re fired,'” DeSantis read from the book. “I love that part.”Because using his kids as props worked out so well for Ted Cruz.  But I guess your kids aren't old enough to resent it yet. pic.twitter.com/auVjkWl9LM— Rysa Walker (@RysaWalker) July 30, 2018DeSantis is “teaching Madison to talk,” Mrs. DeSantis states, as her husband points to and reads a “Make America Great Again” poster to their daughter.“People say Ron’s all Trump, but he is so much more,” Mrs. DeSantis tells viewers.Really? Because the ad is nothing more than DeSantis parroting Trump. Anyway…The Congressman is then shown standing over his infant son, who is wearing a MAGA shirt, saying: “Bigly[big league?], it’s so good.”The ad ends with Mrs. DeSantis saying: “I just thought you should know.”The ad was met with swift mockery on social media. Where exactly is a border wall going to be placed in Florida?What border is Florida going to put a wall on? The one with GA/AL? I'm not even sure who loses in that scenario.— Blue Hog Report (@BlueHogReport) July 30, 2018Its called self respect, Ron, look into it. You think Trump respects you for this? He is laughing with the rest of us.— Terminate and Stay Resident (@mark_earnest) July 30, 2018So you have no platform. Got it. Signed, Florida Voter— Philippe (@Philippe_Tweets) July 30, 2018Why the hell would you publicly do this to your children. Goes to show you that you have no class at all.— al49269 (@al49269) July 30, 2018“I literally cringed watching this.”Literally cringed watching this. RIP whatever's left of @RonDeSantisFL's dignity. pic.twitter.com/SljIzPTVGW— shauna (@goldengateblond) July 30, 2018“Looks like an SNL skit.”It looks like a SNL skit  — Dotard goes to space (@Shanny_resqchi) July 30, 2018“Totally creepy.”If this for real, or is this The Onion.  Gotta be a joke, if not, totally creepy.— Rita (@Ritapp1905) July 30, 2018“WTF?”GOP FL governor candidate Ron DeSantis is trying to out-Trump the competition. In a new campaign ad, he teaches his daughter how to "build the wall" with toy blocks. WTF? We should teach children how to build bridges, not walls. pic.twitter.com/u0L255nI9N— Adam Best (@adamcbest) July 30, 2018First of all, the right is terrible at the humorSecond, they all just seem to have this creepy, authoritarian white people vibe that is a huge turn off for people with decency and morals.Good luck with that campaign Douchesantis— United We Stand (@underwhelmed04) July 30, 2018People even accused DeSantis of teaching his kids to be racist.Just proves racism is taught— Megan (@crazynormalhere) July 30, 2018And this is how racism is learned…. from the parents— Tory Guerra (@ToryGuerra7) July 30, 2018I always feel bad for kids who are manipulated, especially by their parents.— Inotherwords (@7bestoftimes) July 30, 2018Teaching his child about racism so early on. How lovely.— Kerri KavaNOPE (@KerriJersey) July 30, 2018Others found the ad embarrassing and insulting to DeSantis’s kids because the Internet is forever.	Liberal
Many Americans will never forget the feeling of dread–and, for some, vindication–that overtook the country in the early hours of November 9, 2016. The victory of then-candidate Donald Trump was one of the biggest upsets in United States political history, especially because a majority of Americans found it literallyupsetting. Now, theNew York Timesis channeling those same emotions again. This time, their eyes are on the future.In one piece by Bret Stephens, Trump wins re-election in 2020. In the other, by David Leonhardt, Trump loses to Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA).Stephens imagines Trump’s reelection victory to be a result of a growing narrative the administration is pushing: a booming economy for which Trump is attempting to take credit and a divided Democratic party still licking its wounds. Trump still loses the popular vote in Stephens’s imagination, but actually wins more electoral votes. Leonhardt paints a narrative that many predict and for which Democrats hope: Trump loses by a relative landslide with Americans fed up by erratic news cycles and chaos-inducing tweets having become the new normal.Though the election is still over two years away, Americans are apprehensive about 2020, especially since the 2016 election proved that when it comes to Trump, all bets are off. Strong reactions by Twitter users across the political spectrum indicate that the emotional highs and lows of 2016 remain raw within the national psyche.If the GOP can ride the economic message to Midterm election day they have a chance. I suspect the Trump Admin will do all in its power to suppress any negative numbers that suggest a downward trend. From @DLeonhardt's NYT opinion piece: https://t.co/1xOBOaMHyl pic.twitter.com/vzDHMR2oTl— Chris Morris (@camorris) July 30, 2018id rather smash my head against a rock if i wanted to get dumber— U.S. Person 1 (@greg_oakland) July 30, 2018How Trump Lost Re-election in 2020A sneak peek at The Timess news analysis from Nov. 4, 2020.By David Leonhardt, NYT Opinion Columnist July 29, 2018But, if YOU don't vote, THIS won't happen https://t.co/ckfsuRzc1E— Grumpa  Vote Blue 2020 #HeyTrumpWheresMaria? (@Grumpa) July 30, 2018Just coz the normal rules dont seemingly apply to him, doesnt mean they shouldnt. Neither does it mean that he can go about writing his own rulebook at the altar of democracy.— Pradyut V. Hande (@HandesUp) July 30, 2018Though Trump’s approval rating has yet to reach a fifty percent threshold and the administration has been embattled with scandals, many Democrats still refuse to be smug about the impending election’s outcome.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s attorney Rudy Giuliani called Fox News to clarify comments he made earlier today about special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the president’s Russian ties.“When I said today that there and therefore… and that collusion also is no crime, I’ve been saying that from the very beginning, [and] so has John Dowd,” he said, referring to the man who once led Trump’s legal team.He added: “It’s a very, very familiar lawyer’s argument than the alternative: My client didn’t do it, and even if he did it, it’s not a crime.”Giuliani is calling into Fox News right now to clarify his collusion comments from this morning: "My client didn't do it, and even if he did it, it's not a crime." pic.twitter.com/4Lem500Wuj— Aidan McLaughlin (@aidnmclaughlin) July 30, 2018Giuliani’s clarifications come after he sparked significant criticism earlier today when he said during an interview on Fox & Friends that special counsel Robert Mueller should end his investigation.If we had anything to do about it, I would ask the special counsel to put out his report and show us what hes got, you know, show your hand, Giuliani said.When asked if he meant he wanted Mueller to put out his final report, Giuliani replied:Final! Get it over with. Make your case to the Justice Department that you have to continue to investigate. I think youll find that there is no reason. Look, think about this: You could investigate an innocent man forever. If you decided he robbed the bank, and he didnt and he proved to you 50 different ways that he didnt do it, youll look at 51, and then 52, and then 53. Then you try to get somebody who knows him and prosecute the poor person for tax evasion, so they say he robbed the bank. Thats whats going on here!Rudy Giuliani: You could investigate an innocent man forever. pic.twitter.com/JDpn7NPBo7— Fox News (@FoxNews) July 30, 2018During the same interview, Giuliani justified his that colluding with a foreign government is not a crime.I have been sitting here looking in the federal code trying to find collusion as a crime, he said. Collusion is not a crime. Everything thats been released so far shows the president to be absolutely innocent. He didnt do anything wrong.The last two tapes, Giuliani added, referring to recordings of conversations between Trump and his former lawyer Michael Cohen are evidence in his favor:He wants to do a transaction by check. He wants to do it as a corporate transaction. Perfectly legal. Second one, in great detail he describes the Stormy Daniels deal to Cuomo, and he says the president didnt know about it, the president didnt have money, I paid for it myself, it was only a campaign contribution.Rudy Giuliani: Everything thats been released so far shows the president to be absolutely innocent. He didnt do anything wrong. pic.twitter.com/tdE6VOqDnz— Fox News (@FoxNews) July 30, 2018Giuliani later made the rounds on CNN to disparage Cohens credibility. Cohen claimed last week that Trump did, in fact, know about a meeting his son Donald Jr. and several other members of his campaign had with a Russian intermediary who promised damaging information on Hillary Clinton.What the heck are you picking on me for saying he was an honest, honorable man, when I didnt know he tape recorded conversations with his clients?"What the heck are you picking on me for saying he was an honest, honorable man, when I didn't know he tape recorded conversations with his clients?" asks Rudy Giuliani of Michael Cohen. "George Washington didn't know that Benedict Arnold was a traitor" https://t.co/RNFNjQICvl pic.twitter.com/9qzecuWpo7— New Day (@NewDay) July 30, 2018Giuliani used to argue that there was no possibility at all that the president colluded. Now, he’s appeared to change his tune, and this has not gone unnoticed.NEW: Giuliani just moved the goal posts in 2 big ways on Fox & CNN :1. He's no longer claiming Trump didn't collude with Russia. He's claiming "collusion is not a crime." 2. He's not saying Trump did not know abt 2016 Russia mtg in advance. He's saying Trump did not ATTEND it.— Christina Wilkie (@christinawilkie) July 30, 2018Hope Hicks, Nov. 2016: "There was no communication between the campaign and any foreign entity during the campaign"Trump, Feb. 2017: "I have nothing to do with Russia. To the best of my knowledge no person that I deal with does."Giuliani, July 2018: "Collusion is not a crime"— Marshall Cohen (@MarshallCohen) July 30, 2018Watching Giulianis @CNN @NewDay interview was bizarre. There was a noticeable shift in his strategy. Instead of pushing the old no collusion! line, he now claims collusion is not a crime. What evidence of collusion made Giuliani implicitly concede there was collusion? pic.twitter.com/Veg15eLFgc— Renato Mariotti (@renato_mariotti) July 30, 2018The change in Giuliani’s strategy echoes the rather tumultuous relationship between Trump and former lawyer John Dowd, who was once the lead attorney for the special counsel investigation. Dowd resigned in March. According toThe New York Times, which spoke with an individual briefed on the matter, Dowd had concluded that the president was ignoring his advice.	Liberal
Right-wing radio personality Bill Mitchell offered a rather perplexing defense of President Donald Trump on Monday, tweeting that God favors Trump because of “math.”“God favors America,” Mitchell wrote, adding that “Trump favors America.” Therefore, Mitchell said, “God favors Trump.”“It’s just math,” Mitchell concluded.Mitchell did not offer any math to back up his claim.God favors America.Trump favors America.God favors Trump.It's just math.— Bill Mitchell (@mitchellvii) July 29, 2018This is not math and Twitter jumped in to remind the “Your Voice” host that the evidence at hand supports a much different conclusion.Like any of Trumps math, this contains no evidence.— Some Guy (@TommoPollitt) July 30, 2018What’s more obvious, one user pointed out, is the favoritism coming from the Trump administration – toward Russia.“Trump favors Putin. Putin favors Russia. Trump favors Russia.”Trump favors Putin.Putin favors Russia.Trump favors Russia.— LCWLAW (@LCWLAW1) July 30, 2018Congressman Ted Lieu (D-CA) fired back at Mitchell by saying “God favors everyone.”That's interesting, because as a Christian I was taught God favors everyone.— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) July 29, 2018Then came some other claims which actually made a lot more sense than Mitchell’s.“There is like, no God tho.”There's like, no God tho.— TakedownMRAs (@TakedownMRAs) July 30, 2018And since love is blind, and Ray Charles was blind, Ray Charles must be God.God is love.Love is blind.Ray Charles is blind.Ray Charles is God.— K (@KueKueKue2) July 30, 2018“It’s just math,” after all.Its just math.— Fake Russian Witch Cunt (@Pseudosaurus) July 30, 2018And “much better reasoning.”Much better reasoning too— Lilith (@LilithLiberated) July 30, 2018Given that Mitchell decided to arbitrarily confuse causality with correlation – a frequent mistake those poorly-versed in math and science make, Twitter offered some other examples.“You suck at math.”You suck at math— K. Thor Jensen (@kthorjensen) July 29, 2018Mitchell’s “informal logic” didn’t take well on social media.Youre saying favor is a transitive property. That entails that if you and, say, Obama both favor any one thing (say you both like ice cream), then you favor Obama. Its just math.**actually its informal logic but frankly youve got bigger problems here.— Patrick Stokes (@patstokes) July 30, 2018Neither did his “blind belief in superstitions,” which, of course, are not math.That's not math. That's blind belief in superstitions. Math is the opposite. Dummy— mathieu Kassovitz (@kassovitz1) July 30, 2018That is so much not how math works, and neither does syllogisms. Have you been to school ?— Geno (@TruGeno) July 30, 2018“There is literally no math here.”There is literally no math there – nor logic or basic common sense. pic.twitter.com/T1fM4KQqS7—  Cyndia BLUE "Unstable Genius" (@malinablue) July 30, 2018Mitchell got compared to a port-a-potty.Port-a-potties are full of sh**You're full of sh**You're a port-a-potty.— The Hoarse Whisperer (@HoarseWisperer) July 29, 2018And then came excerpts from the Bible, none of which mention America but all of which mention God loving everyone.	Liberal
President Donald Trump loves to claim that the United States is experiencing “the best economy & jobs EVER,” but a closer look at the data reveals that the president’s hyperbole doesn’t match the data.Jobs.Fewer jobs have been created each month since Trump took office thanwere added under President Barack Obama, on average.MSNBC economic analyst Steven Rattner presented the data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “Obama finished out his last 18 months with stronger employment gains than Trump has over his first 18 months,” Rattner tweeted on Monday. Obama’s final 18 months saw an average of 206,000 jobs added per month.During Trump’s first 18 months, that number has fallen to 193,000. The jobs report for July 2018 will be released on Friday, August 3rd, so the 193,000 average may fluctuate.Job growth has been on a roll since the recovery began in 2010.  Obama finished out his last 18 months with stronger employment gains than Trump has over his first 18 months. My @Morning_Joe chart: pic.twitter.com/jhKRjesgvd— Steven Rattner (@SteveRattner) July 30, 2018The unemployment rate, which is hovering around 3.8 percent, is also not historically low. In the 1950’s, it dipped below three percent. The 1950’s was an era of heavy investment in infrastructure and progressive taxation.People on social media appreciate charts because data is important.Absolutely fabulous. Please post all charts. It was a very educational morning, thank you.— spring (@summer7570) July 30, 2018Charts rock! I enjoy your appearances on @Morning_Joe— Tim (@tim_username) July 30, 2018Your charts are so helpful! I save episodes of Morning Joe so that I can share your charts with my husband when he gets home. I've even been known to take photos of the TV screen when a chart is especially illuminating. — M Kathryn Reynolds (@profmkrey) July 30, 2018Great to see longer term context rather than single points— mk mitty (@emkaymitty) July 30, 2018There have been 3.7 million jobs added since November 2016, however, overall growth has slowed since Trump took office.Per CNN in July: “The United States added 2.7 million jobs in 2015 and 2.3 million in 2016. It added 2.2 million last year and is on pace for 2.6 million this year.”Gross Domestic Product.Last Friday, the Commerce Department released its quarterly report on American economic output, which showed GDP at 4.1 percent. Trump was quick to declare this as “amazing” and“an economic turnaround of historic proportions.”I am thrilled to announce that in the second quarter of this year, the U.S. Economy grew at the amazing rate of 4.1%! pic.twitter.com/xeAPwAAOXN— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 27, 2018What the president is omitting, however, is that he inherited an economy that had already been on the upswing long before he took office.“The data show that the falling unemployment rate and gains in home values reflect the duration of the recovery,” according to CBS’s analysis, “rather than any major changes made since 2017 by the Trump administration.”	Liberal
When Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement from the Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS), he was the longest serving Justice at over 30 years, having been appointed in 1988 an election year by Republican President Ronald Reagan.But at 82 years of age, Kennedy was not the oldest Justice on the SCOTUS bench. That distinction belongs to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a 1993 appointee of President Bill Clinton.Justice Ginsburg is 85 years old, 3 years Kennedy’s senior. 70 year old Justice Clarence Thomas a President George H. W. Bush appointee in 1991 beats Ginsburg in years on the SCOTUS bench at just shy of 27 to her just shy of 25.So with Kennedy’s announcement, speculation began on the retirements of Ginsburg and Thomas. Would they wait until after the 2018 midterms to retire? Or would they wait until after the 2020 presidential election?Conservatives would rather see Thomas and Ginsburg retire under President Donald Trump or another Republican president. Liberals would prefer the opposite which means both Justices would need to retire, at minimum, after January 2021.Considered a liberal Justice, Ginsburg fans voiced concern over the balance of the SCOTUS if she retired while Trump or Pence remain in office. Her detractors expressed hope that her retirement drew near, giving Trump a third SCOTUS pick after Republicans blocked President Barack Obama’s last SCOTUS pick.Now the woman herself has addressed the issue. Ginsburg says she plans to remain on the bench for at least the next five years, or until 2023.Speaking in New York City Sunday after a play based on her former colleague, Justice Antonin Scalia, Ginsburg relieved some fears while disappointing others.“I’m now 85,” Ginsburg stated. “My senior colleague, Justice John Paul Stevens, he stepped down when he was 90, so think I have about at least five more years.”SCOTUS Retirement  Since 1900, thirty-six justices have retired at avg age of about 74 Avg age of retirement for the past 11 justices was 80 Ruth Bader Ginsburg is 85Oldest at Retirement Oliver Wendell Holmes (90) John Paul Stevens (90)??????? https://t.co/cVp79Ctfaf Fox News Research (@FoxNewsResearch) July 30, 2018Ginsburg maintains a strict workout regimen which includes weight training and planking, as shown in the documentary film RBG.pic.twitter.com/dCW0U3Fxel The other Mrs. Mueller (@GreenieYogini) July 30, 2018If 85 year old Ruth Bader Ginsburg can do planks to help protect the reproductive rights of women, you can certainly take the time to vote on November 6. @ruthbadergins #Vote #Midterms2018 pic.twitter.com/o4seVRNVyO Siddhartha Khosla (@SiddKhoslaMusic) June 27, 2018The news of her intention to remain on the bench received high praise and gratitude from liberal leaning United States citizens on Twitter.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani said during an interview on “Fox & Friends” that special counsel Robert Mueller should end his investigation of the president’s Russian ties, and his argument for why Mueller should is questionable.“If we had anything to do about it, I would ask the special counsel to put out his report and show us what he’s got, you know, show your hand,” Giuliani said.When asked if he meant he wanted Mueller to put out his final report, Giuliani replied:Final! Get it over with. Make your case to the Justice Department that you have to continue to investigate. I think you’ll find that there is no reason. Look, think about this: You could investigate an innocent man forever. If you decided he robbed the bank, and he didn’t and he proved to you 50 different ways that he didn’t do it, you’ll look at 51, and then 52, and then 53. Then you try to get somebody who knows him and prosecute the poor person for tax evasion, so they say he robbed the bank. That’s what’s going on here!Rudy Giuliani: You could investigate an innocent man forever. pic.twitter.com/JDpn7NPBo7— Fox News (@FoxNews) July 30, 2018During the same interview, Giuliani justified his that colluding with a foreign government is not a crime.I have been sitting here looking in the federal code trying to find collusion as a crime, he said. “Collusion is not a crime. Everything thats been released so far shows the president to be absolutely innocent. He didnt do anything wrong.The last two tapes, Giuliani added, referring to recordings of conversations between Trump and his former lawyer Michael Cohen “are evidence in his favor”:He wants to do a transaction by check. He wants to do it as a corporate transaction. Perfectly legal. Second one, in great detail he describes the Stormy Daniels deal to Cuomo, and he says the president didn’t know about it, the president didn’t have money, I paid for it myself, it was only a campaign contribution.Rudy Giuliani: Everything thats been released so far shows the president to be absolutely innocent. He didnt do anything wrong. pic.twitter.com/tdE6VOqDnz— Fox News (@FoxNews) July 30, 2018Giuliani later made the rounds on CNN to disparage Cohen’s credibility.“What the heck are you picking on me for saying he was an honest, honorable man, when I didn’t know he tape recorded conversations with his clients?”"What the heck are you picking on me for saying he was an honest, honorable man, when I didn't know he tape recorded conversations with his clients?" asks Rudy Giuliani of Michael Cohen. "George Washington didn't know that Benedict Arnold was a traitor" https://t.co/RNFNjQICvl pic.twitter.com/9qzecuWpo7— New Day (@NewDay) July 30, 2018All of these statements immediately opened up Giuliani to criticism.No @RudyGiuliani, but conspiracy and treason are! Your "client" is guilty of both. You are guilty of conspiracy to obstruct justice. As a former Federal Prosecutor, you should know that.  From America's Mayor to Putin's useful idiot. What a ride that must have been. Traitor!— Randy Ferrell #VetsVote/@VoteVets (@rpdandy) July 30, 2018Rudy Giuliani is definition of self-sabotage.He would have been remembered as an American hero, but instead will be recalled in history as the 'horrible attorney for America's greatest villain'.— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) July 30, 2018I wish Rudy Giuliani would have been @realDonaldTrump s campaign manager after manafort left. We wouldnt be where we are today.— Just Say No To Trump (@DontElectTrump) July 30, 2018https://twitter.com/starhistorian/status/1023912564512747521Giuliani’s comments come after the presidentattacked Michael Cohenand claimed he did not know about his son Donald Jr.smeeting with Russians in Trump Tower during the 2016 election campaign.I did NOT know of the meeting with my son, Don jr. Sounds to me like someone is trying to make up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?), Trump tweeted on Friday morning after news outlets reported that Cohen revealed that Trump did, in fact, know about the meetingand that hes willing to discuss the matter with special counsel Robert Mueller.…..I did NOT know of the meeting with my son, Don jr. Sounds to me like someone is trying to make up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?). He even retained Bill and Crooked Hillarys lawyer. Gee, I wonder if they helped him make the choice!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 27, 2018Giuliani, had already denied the reports saying that Cohen cant be believed unless its corroborated five times and that Cohen has been lying all week, hes been lying for years.I talked to the president about this at length before as well as other witnesses and its not true. Why would you expect it would be true from someone like Cohen? A lawyer who would tape their own client is a lawyer without any character, Giuliani added.	Liberal
Trumps administration recently enacted another blow to the American healthcare system. Early in July, it was announced that they would be deleting 20 years’worth of critical medical guidelines. This vast database of guidelines has been a treasure trove of critical information used by doctors and other medical professionals for the last two decades. The database went dark on July 16th, due to lack of funding.As part of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) maintained the database known as the National Guideline Clearinghouse (NGC).The following message was posted on the AHRQ website:The NGC was originally created in 1998 by AHRQ in partnership with the American Medical Association and the American Association of Health Plans (now America’s Health Insurance Plans). This partnership ended in 2002. The contract that supports the NGC ends this month and funds are not available to continue support for the NGC. AHRQ’s decision to close the NGC has elicited significant feedback from the healthcare field, and the Agency appreciates the passionate support that users have expressed. AHRQ is exploring options to support the NGC in the future and will continue to do so even while the site remains offline.Although many non-professionals may have never heard of the database, many medical professionals believe that the database was the most important source for evidence-based research. Guideline.gov was our go-to source, and there is nothing else like it in the world. It is a singular resource, said Valerie King, a professor in the Department of Family Medicine and Director of Research at the Center for Evidence-based Policy at Oregon Health & Science University.The database, which was housed online, received 200,000 unique visitors per month. Essentially a repository of medical cheat sheets, the database contained compilations of the latest, most relevant medical research. This research was used to conduct best-practice clinical work. Research included everything from HIV research to a timeline for how and when to start a patient on insulin. The NGC was considered to be one of the most extensive, accurate and reliable sources of information available to the medical profession.In times past, there were an awful lot of, let me put air quotes around this  guidelines  that werent of good methodologic quality. They were typically just expert opinions, or what we jokingly refer to as BOGSAT guidelines: bunch of guys sitting around a table guidelines, said King.	Liberal
On Friday, The Washington Post reported on Donald Trump’s angry reaction to reporters who repeatedly yell out questions at him.“At various moments throughout his presidency, Trump has vented angrily to aides about what he considers disrespectful behavior and impertinent questions from reporters in the Oval Office and in other venues. He has also asked that retaliatory action be taken against them.”’These people shouting questions are the worst,’ Trump has said, according to a current official. ‘Why do we have them in here?’In response, professor and writer Daniel Drezner tweeted:“I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler.”Ill believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/H154ImCYsC pic.twitter.com/yeBO2TOLmE— Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) July 27, 2018But it turns out this isn’t the first time he’s tweeted these very words about Donald Trump, or a variation thereof. As Daniel explained on Friday:This is the 405th tweet in the #ToddlerinChief thread. https://t.co/itgsQjvB45— Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) July 27, 2018Yes, the thread actually began well over a year ago, with a tweet on April 25, 2017, linking to an article in which Donald Trump’s staff explains that:“Once he goes upstairs there’s no managing him.”Drezner’s caption:I'll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/yAZg1uZnpy pic.twitter.com/o8UltcVhda— Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) April 25, 2017Since that day in April, Drezner repeated his assertion the next time the Trump administration provided a worthy example of their view of the President’s maturity.Which was two days later.I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/AjyZaPnVqT pic.twitter.com/jlbLFFxkFV Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) April 27, 2017Since then, many more have followed.Ill believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when GOP lawmakers stop talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/ECrbLFL6ha pic.twitter.com/Lnwg9T3WH3 Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) July 23, 2018Each time Drezner includes a variation of the same caption from his original Trump assessment:I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when ____ stops talking about him like a toddler. In the example above, it was GOP lawmakers.While there has not been a post every day, there is one at least once a week. And some days offer a wealth of examples. For instance, August 4, 2017 offered three examples.I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/9aIXMOfg6O pic.twitter.com/fLLIRL0SWA Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 4, 2017I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/bmkPGKXyYP pic.twitter.com/1lF6DFbuC9 Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 4, 2017I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/3vWxYXuvG6 pic.twitter.com/OpYfbln2pc Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 4, 2017Drezner pulls his quotes from a variety of print media. The only common denominator is quotes must come from the President’s own closest allies in the White House, his own staff…I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/Pur7LBjIQT pic.twitter.com/mxjvOpMuTA Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 17, 2017…or due to pressing examples…	Liberal
Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation keeps heating up. Mueller released a list of 35 possible witnesses to testify against former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort, currently awaiting trial for bank fraud and tax evasion.One name on the list is particularly notable: Tad Devine, a former advisor to Senator Bernie Sanders (D-VT) during the 2016 presidential campaign.NEW in United States v. Manafort – The Special Counsel's office has submitted their list of 35 witnesses to testify on July 31st. pic.twitter.com/UJZTBsxiRF— Tomer (@TomerElk) July 27, 2018For those confused to see Bernie Sander's former chief strategist Tad Devine on the list, see:https://t.co/vTfdAE1SU0— Tomer (@TomerElk) July 27, 2018Devine made headlines earlier this month when it was revealed that Mueller was investigating Devine’s work with Manafort to elect former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, Russia’s preferred candidate at the time. As evidenced by this witness list, Devine appears to be assisting with the Special Counsel.Manafort made over 600,000 dollars a monthby the Pro-Russia Party of Nations to rebrand Yanukovych into an electable candidate. Yanukovych eventually fled the Ukraine to Russia and Ukrainian courts are hearing a case against him for high treason.Twitter is wary of Tad Devine for these alliances.So Tad Devine told NYT he quit working for Yanukovych in 2012 b/c he jailed his rival. There is a 4/12 email to Manafort in which he says, "We will not be able to work with you on the election this year." But in August of that year he's sending Manafort a strategy memo— Rachel Weiner (@rachelweinerwp) July 26, 2018Tad Devine was a Putin man with Manafort in Ukraine & a Bernie man in the US. Now, Devine is cooperating w prosecution of his former partner Paul Manafort, Trumps campaign chairman.2012 Bernie was a no to Magnitsky Act. 2017 a no to Russian sanctions https://t.co/fgMt0bPETY— RiotWomenn (@riotwomennn) July 27, 2018One question raised by #TadDevine's total influence over Sanders is why Devine advised Sanders to remain in the primary not just after he lost resoundingly, but for 2mos after it officially ended and even after Obama asked him to withdraw and unite with Hillary against Trump.— Victoria Brownworth (@VABVOX) July 19, 2018I'm old enough to remember when Tad Devine claimed staffers had "accidentally" conducted 25 targeted searches of Clinton's voter data.Hey, just because he's a Russia-linked former Bernie staffer and appears on Mueller's evidence list for the Manafort trial, don't read into that pic.twitter.com/had4neStSh— The Hoarse Whisperer (@HoarseWisperer) July 19, 2018Devine isn’t the only notable name on the list either.	Liberal
Thursday, CNN reported thatMichael Cohen longtime lawyer, confidant and fixer for President Trump claimed the President knew in advance about the meeting between his son, son-in-law and at least one Russian operative at Trump Tower in June 2016.If true, many consider this a bombshell revelation since Donald Trump himself, as well as many in his orbit have consistently denied his knowledge of that meeting.Including the President himself in a tweet on Friday:…..I did NOT know of the meeting with my son, Don jr. Sounds to me like someone is trying to make up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?). He even retained Bill and Crooked Hillarys lawyer. Gee, I wonder if they helped him make the choice!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 27, 2018But that certainly wasn’t the first denial. On Friday, CNN compiled a list of 19 times the Trump campaign, administration and bevy of personal lawyers denied the President knew in advance about the meeting.Here are the 19 denials CNN found, beginning with denials by the President himself…Reuters interview on July 12, 2017: “No. That, I didn’t know. Until a couple of days ago, when I heard about this. No, I didn’t know about that.” Press pool spray on July 12, 2017: “Don is as many of you know Don he’s a good boy. He’s a good kid. And he had a meeting, nothing happened with the meeting. It was a short meeting as he told me because I only heard about it two or three days ago…” New York Times interview on July 19, 2017: “No, I didn’t know anything about the meeting.It must have been a very important must have been a very unimportant meeting, because I never even heard about it. …No, nobody told me. I didn’t know nothIt’s a very unimportant sounded like a very unimportant meeting. Tweet on July 27, 2018: “NO,… I did NOT know of the meeting with my son, Don jr. Sounds to me like someone is trying to make up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?). He even retained Bill and Crooked Hillary’s lawyer. Gee, I wonder if they helped him make the choice!”…then the denials of Trump Jr….Statement on July 9, 2017: “…The meeting lasted approximately 20 to 30 minutes. As it ended, my acquaintance apologized for taking up our time. That was the end of it and there was no further contact or follow-up of any kind. My father knew nothing of the meeting or these events.” Fox News interview on July 11, 2017: “No. It was such a nothing, there was nothing to tell. I mean, I wouldn’t have remembered it until you start scouring through the stuff. It was it was literally just a wasted 20 minutes, which was a shame.” Senate Judiciary Committee testimony on September 7, 2017: QUESTION: Did you tell your father about this email? TRUMP JR.: I did not. QUESTION: …Why wouldn’t you share it with your father, given your response that you loved it, especially later in the summer? TRUMP JR.: Because I wouldn’t bring him anything that’s unsubstantiated, especially from a guy like Rob, before I knew what it was actually about myself. Senate Judiciary Committee testimony on September 7, 2017: QUESTION: Has he (your father) ever told you whether he saw this e-mail or knew about this meeting? TRUMP JR.: Not that I recall, no. QUESTION: And that is something you would recall? TRUMP JR.: Certainly not at the time. So, I mean obviously he’s aware of it now because he’s read it, it’s been in the papers, but that’s the extent of my knowledge of his knowledge of it. Senate Judiciary Committee testimony on September 7, 2017: QUESTION: Did he ask you did he indicate to you that he hadn’t known about the meeting before? Did he say why wasn’t I told about the meeting? TRUMP JR.: No, he didn’t. QUESTION: Did you find that odd? TRUMP JR.: No, because he wasn’t aware of it, and, frankly, by the time anyone was aware of it, which was summer of this year, as I stated earlier, I wouldn’t have wanted to get him involved in it because it had nothing to do with him.…and Trump personal lawyer Jay Sekulow…	Liberal
The White House released a statement on Friday touting good economic news that the American economy grew by 4.1 percent in the second quarter of 2018. Whoever posted the meme on Twittermisspelled ‘United States’ in bold and ALL CAPS while quoting President Donald Trump.The tweet has since been deleted, which is a violation of the Presidential Records Act.“If economic growth continues at this pace, THE UNITED SATES[sic] ECONOMY WILL DOUBLE IN SIZE more than 10 years faster than it would have under President Bush or President Obama,” the White House said in a statement, quoting Trump.Trump’s personal tweets are renowned for their typographical errors and atrocious grammar, though this sort of error coming from the White House is, as Trump would say, “sad!”https://twitter.com/danielafrancopi/status/1022919763985661954And again, tweets are official government records, so the White House’s deletion only digs the hole deeper.In case it gets deleted: "United Sates." pic.twitter.com/uKqB1FfzyP— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 27, 2018Trump really does have “the best people” and “the best words” were among some of the responses on Twitter.He knows all the best words…he just cant spell them. Or say them.Trump's White House misspells 'United States' in embarrassing official statement https://t.co/H8fkfkhtrU via rawstory— Ms. Crowley  (@fiercelyhonest) July 27, 2018https://twitter.com/PatsyResists/status/1022925599994720258Maybe he just wants to change the name…or it reflects how you pronounce it with dentures falling out.Trump's White House misspells 'United States' in embarrassing official statement https://t.co/1CNx1dVEKu— tRick Salsman (@tRickSalsman) July 27, 2018Omg. They are so incompetent. #idiots https://t.co/f4Q2wFYkbN— snowflakelibtard (@payne_tammi) July 27, 2018“Not the Onion.” Satirists must really be struggling these days.NOT THE ONION — https://t.co/mFAIz10O26— (((3-Toed Mitch))) (@PlainMushroomWt) July 27, 2018“Embarrassing” pretty much sums it up.This is beyond ridiculous. Who misspells the United States?— Jason Kole (@JMKole) July 27, 2018Their lack of attention to details is a major problem. It isn't Coastal Elitism that leads me to think that sloppiness here is a sign of carelessness elsewhere. The United Sates is me and my husband at Shake Shack https://t.co/OOHMIaVpjD— RaPUNzel (@RandilynIsIn) July 27, 2018“Sates,” one person observed, is an anagram of “asset.” Hmmm…	Liberal
Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible Russian collusion by President Donald Trump’s campaign is showing no signs of slowing down, with individuals inside the president’s inner circle, including members of his family, finding themselves entrenched in the ongoing probe.On Friday, fate seemed to tease us all when Mueller and Donald Trump Jr. were spotted waiting at the same gate at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C.Props to Politico for capturing this surreal moment.Spotted: Robert Mueller and Donald Trump Jr. both waiting for their flights this morning at the 35X gate at DCA. And yes, there is a photo. https://t.co/gKUSO7QhOU pic.twitter.com/tvcoyLMnDW— POLITICO (@politico) July 27, 2018Both men were at gate 35X Friday morning, awaiting their flights. Mueller can be seen seated and reading a newspaper while Junior stands in line at the gate, wearing a turquoise collared t-shirt, talking on the phone.Gate 35X has a notorious reputation for being particularly insufferable. The gate is nestled inside Terminal C and is accessed via escalator. Once downstairs, passengers line up and wait for buses to shuttle them to “small commuter planesparked outside several hundred yards away.”No word yet on where Mueller and Junior were headed, or if the two men noticed each other.Of course, that hasn’t stopped social media from imagining what could be going through Junior’s head as he stands ten feet from the man peering into his life with a legal electron microscope.The Daily Show tweeted”usually the only place Don Jr. sees Mueller is his nightmares.”Weird, usually the only place Don Jr. sees Mueller is his nightmares. https://t.co/LjA7BLz5iF— The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) July 27, 2018At this point, I think Jr. is on a 24/7 nightmare cycle. He sees Mueller in his oatmeal.— Reverend Lars (@ReverendLars) July 27, 2018No dad.. Seriously.. I think he knows…— DJ MarcusShowtime (@DJShowtimekc34) July 27, 2018It’s hard to resist picturing what the two of them on the same flight would be like.Just imagine Mueller sitting right behind Jr on the plane. Kicking his seat every 2 minutes. pic.twitter.com/dGRDOJZaHX— Thomas Lane (@shotgun314159) July 27, 2018He must be shitting his pants. Mueller sits next to Jr. & says, just read the paper, Cohen states that your dad was aware & approved the mtg with the Russians. What say  you?  Jr. is gonna rat on his dad during the flight. pic.twitter.com/0yPzjYBHXQ— Sid SOLIS (@darth_pokpok) July 27, 2018Is it even a real phone call?Hes faking the caaaalll — Willy Colunga (@TheRealOGMandi) July 27, 2018“Closing in.”The only thing I can think of is: Closing in..But this is quite literal.  pic.twitter.com/q1PzB23bS7— pac devil (@Pacd3vil) July 27, 2018And of course the memes began:Mueller really is everywhere. pic.twitter.com/XMTm5v8yoU— Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) July 27, 2018"I think my camo hat has thrown him off the scent."— MandarIN Cgnito (@Mandari25733571) July 27, 2018This reply is  pic.twitter.com/3QJJyFLntM— pat. (@MaverickCain) July 27, 2018Seems like Mueller really does know alot more than he’s let on.https://twitter.com/mtylr23/status/1022912332073246720Adam Parkhomenko, a former advisor to Hillary Clinton, thinks Junior was faking the call.	Liberal
According to datareleasedFriday morning by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), the national economy saw a significant boost in the second quarter, with the initial estimate for quarterly growth in the gross domestic product at 4.1 percent, much higher than 2.2 percent seen in the first quarter of 2018.President Donald Trump’s son, Donald Trump Jr., took to Twitter to share the news. Trump Jr. mocked “the experts who laughed about breaking 3%” and claimed that President Barack Obama, his father’s predecessor, never saw such economic growth on his watch.Incredible numbers. I remember when the experts laughed about breaking 3%. Just because Obama never broke 2% doesnt mean that someone with great policies cant. Lets keep this going. https://t.co/05LyLBw22j— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 27, 2018Trump Jr. is wrong, as it turns out, as several who responded to his tweet pointed out.Quarterly GDP growth was above 4% four times under Obama. pic.twitter.com/D2dtmDI8Ss— Smith (@WriteSmitty) July 27, 2018Economy did 4% plus in 2009, 2011 and 2015.— Jake Sherman (@JakeSherman) July 27, 2018Is lying a hereditary trait in the Trump Family?Obama broke 2 many, many times.Daddy Trump still hasnt reached an Obama 2014 highhttps://t.co/HjCCZyAHfW pic.twitter.com/BECVvMX5YV— Maggie Jordan: (@MaggieJordanACN) July 27, 2018Good news indeed, no matter what party is in power. And President Obama broke 4.5% four times:5.1% Q2 20144.9% Q3 20144.7% Q4 20114.5% Q4 2009.                         #FactsMatterJr— SisterResistor (@FiredUpFedUp) July 27, 2018Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush also took to Twitter to share the news and praise the president…Today's news confirms that 4% growth isn't just aspirational, it's achievable through policies that unleash the power of the market. Credit to @POTUS's economic policies. To sustain this growth, we must pursue a free trade agenda and move to a merit-based immigration system.— Jeb Bush (@JebBush) July 27, 2018…but he was promptly shut down by Philip Bump, a correspondent and analyst forThe Washington Post:This is like celebrating scoring 41 points in the second quarter of a basketball game when you promised to average 40 points a quarter and you scored 22 points in the first quarter and everyone thinks you're going to do worse in the second half. https://t.co/OMLRyzrBaE— Philip Bump (@pbump) July 27, 2018Both Bush’s and Trump Jr.’s tweets were a response to the president’s appearance in the Rose Garden today to share the news:Moments ago, the numbers for Americas economic growth or GDP were just releasedand I am thrilled to announce that in the second quarter of this year, the United States economy grew at the amazing rate of 4.1 percent. Were on track to hit the highest annual average growth rate in over 13 years, and I will say this right now and I will say it strongly, as the trade deals come in one by one, were going to go a lot higher than these numbers, and these are great numbers.I am thrilled to announce that in the second quarter of this year, the U.S. Economy grew at the amazing rate of 4.1%! pic.twitter.com/xeAPwAAOXN— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 27, 2018The president’s comments, however, are rather misleading.As Philip Bump points out:President Trump is looking at theannual changein gross domestic product, a figure that hasnt topped 3 percent since 2005. The Conference Boardprojecteda 3.1 percent annual growth in 2018 earlier this month  but that assumed 4.2 percent growth this quarter. Economists who spoke with The Washington Post, though, think that for a variety of reasons, including the White Houses announced tariffs, economic growth will be slower in the second half of the year.Trumps other assertions, about how the country is going to go a lot higher than these numbers, are at odds with independent projections. Its very Trump, though, to keep pledging more and more.Trump Jr.’s claims fared worse:On the campaign trail, political observers expressedskepticismabout assertions that the country would hit4percent growth annually not 3 percent in a quarter. Trump Jr., willfully or not, seems to be conflating this quarters 4 percent growth with the fact that the economy never grew at a 3 percent annual rate under President Barack Obama. The closest it came was in 2015, when it was at 2.9 percent.So basically nothing Trump Jr. says is true.Bump observes that “in the 37 months since Reagan took office in 1981, economic growth has been higher than 4.1 percent in a quarter  including four times under Obama,” as the graphs below demonstrate.Here’s quarterly GDP change since Reagan’s tenure……and here’s the number of instances the quarterly GDP change was higher than 4 percent.Neither of President Trump’s or his son’s claims about these numbers is all that impressive in context.	Liberal
In September 2017, at theRoute 91 Harvest festival in Las Vegas, Nevada, a gunman opened fire from a hotel window onto crowds of fans there to see their favorite country music artists. 58 people were killed and an estimated more than 800 injured.Two nights before the shooting, country music artist Eric Church headlined the festival. According to an article in Rolling Stone, Church was back at his home in Tennessee when the shooting happened. He got a text with the news and turned on his TV.He admits his first thoughts were for his own fans. Unlike most other major genres of music, country artists maintain a close personal relationship with their fan clubs.“Its selfish of me,” Church said. “But my first thought was, ‘I hope its not our fans.’ We had a lot of fans there. We even promoted online travel options to make it easier for people to come.”I felt like the bait: People come to see you play, then all of a sudden they die? That is not an emotion that I was prepared to deal with. It wrecked me in a lot of ways.”But Church knows who he blames for the Las Vegas shooter having an arsenal that allowed him to hold off the Las Vegas SWAT team: the National Rifle Association.“There are some things we cant stop,” the country singer stated. “Like the disgruntled kid who takes his dads shotgun and walks into a high school.”But we could have stopped the guy in Vegas. I blame the lobbyists. And the biggest in the gun world is the NRA.”Church himself owns about a half dozen assorted guns. But he holds no membership in the NRA.“Im a Second Amendment guy,” Church clarified, “but I feel like [the NRA] have been a bit of a roadblock.”I dont care who you are  you shouldnt have that kind of power over elected officials. To me its cut-and-dried: The gun-show [loophole] would not exist if it werent for the NRA, so at this point in time, if I was an NRA member, I would think I had more of a problem than the solution. I would question myself real hard about what I wanted to be in the next three, four, five years.”“Im a Second Amendment guy,” Church mentions twice in the interview. Thats in the Constitution, its peoples right, and I dont believe its negotiable.”But nobody should have that many guns and that much ammunition and we dont know about it. Nobody should have 21 AKs and 10,000 rounds of ammunition and we dont know who they are. Somethings gotta be done so that a person cant have an armory and pin down a Las Vegas SWAT team for six minutes. Thats fucked up.”Church said he supports closing gun-show loopholes, improving background checks and banning bump stocks.As a gun guy, the number of rounds [the shooter] fired was un-fucking-believable to me. I saw a video on YouTube from the police officers vest cam, and it sounded like an army was up there. I dont think our forefathers ever thought the right to bear arms was that.”Among the 58 people murdered in Las Vegas were several members of Church’s fan club. Sonny Melton, just 29 years old, came from Tennessee with his wife to see Church. His family buried Melton in an Eric Church T-shirt.“It got dark for me for a while,” Church admitted. “I went through a period, a funk, for six months at least. I had anger.”Ive still got anger. Something broke in me that night, and it still hasnt healed. Theres a part of me that hopes it haunts me forever.”Church’s words echo those of the collateral victims of gun violence. The families of the children murdered in Columbine, and Newtown and Parkland and the children who survived the attacks.The friends and family and partners of those murdered at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando will never fully recover either. The trauma never leaves them, they just learn to live with it.For some, taking on the gun lobbyists and the NRA helps them heal. But it also makes them targets of those who think their interpretation of the 2nd Amendment supersedes the rest of the U.S. Constitution.Church knows his Rolling Stone interview will rile some of his fans.“I dont care,” the artist stated.Rights right and wrongs wrong. I dont understand why we have to fear a group [like the NRA]. Its asinine.”Why cant we come together and solve one part of this? Start with the bump stocks and the gun shows. Shut a couple of these down. I do think that will matter a little bit. I think it will save some lives.”	Liberal
Despite a court-ordered deadline to reunite migrant children with their families, hundreds still remain separated from their families. Now, United Airlines is joining the fray to expedite the unification process.The organization FWD.us announced via Twitter that United would be partnering with them to donate much-needed flights to separated families.We're so thankful to announce that @United is jumping in & helping to reunite families. This partnership with United allows us to be able to provide travel to reunited families to get to their next destination with dignity. Thanks for your generosity United! #FlightsforFamilies— FWD.us (@FWDus) July 25, 2018Our companys shared purpose is to connect people and unite the world — we are proud to support your work to help reunify immigrant children and families. ^MM— United Airlines (@united) July 25, 2018Twitter users, including Representative Ted Lieu (D-CA), applauded the partnership and its efforts.Thank you @united. https://t.co/Yh3EP6BOSj— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) July 27, 2018Thank you @United making the friendly skies even friendlier — Piper Perabo (@PiperPerabo) July 25, 2018Proud to be @united where we work/live by our values and use our unique capabilities to serve families in need. https://t.co/KbC8HMATBn— Josh Earnest (@joshearnest) July 25, 2018https://twitter.com/LeftinDecatur/status/1022813281680015360Well done to @united for donating free flights to reunite immigrant families with the children that were separated from them. https://t.co/wAkyxQZeF0— Greg Hogben (@MyDaughtersArmy) July 27, 2018Looks like someone took this advice!Huge shoutout to @united! https://t.co/swpjUPAmfW— Sleeping Giants (@slpng_giants) July 27, 2018United, along with American Airlines, previously requested that the United States government refrain from transporting separated family members on their planes. This was after asharp public condemnation of a policy enacted by President Donald Trump’s justice department to prosecute every migrant who crosses the border and subsequently separate them from their children.Though Trump withdrew the policy due to widespread outcry and a federal judge ordered the families reunited, the implementation has been widely bungled.	Liberal
On Thursday, President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani appeared on CNN’s Cuomo Prime Time andstated that Michael Cohen, Trump’s former personal lawyer, had “lied all his life.” But in May, Giuliani stated in an ABC News interview with George Stephanopoulos that Cohen was “an honest, honorable lawyer.”Thursday, host Chris Cuomo asked the president’s mouthpiece about the recently released information on tapes Trump’s former fixer Cohen recorded and any future revelations that might be on the over 100 other tapes.To begin, Cuomo showed a headline and stated,“Sources with knowledge of the situation tell CNN the president’s former lawyer, Michael Cohen, says he may tell Robert Mueller the president knew about that Trump Tower meeting with a possible Russian agent, that he supported it, and that he therefore lied about what he knew thereafter.”Cuomo then brought out Giuliani and after asking for the President’s lawyer and spin doctor to comment on the headline, Giuliani stated,“I expected something like this from Cohen. He’s been lying all week, I mean or for two he’s been lying for years. I mean, the tapes that we have demonstrate any number of very serious lies by him back a year and a half ago, including his fooling people, hiding tape recordings, telling them they weren’t recorded, lying to their face, breaking faith with them, taping his client, which is a disbarable offense.”I don’t see how he has any credibility. This is basically if he had a trial, and there won’t be a trial here but if he had a trial, you would say, which lie do you want to pick? You want to pick the first lie, the second lie, or maybe some new lie?”There’s nobody I know that knows him that hasn’t warned me if his back is up against the wall, he’ll lie like crazy because he’s lied all his life.”Watch the video excerpt here.He has lied all his life a person who is found to be an incredible liar, hes got a tremendous motive to lie now I dont think anyone believes that. Rudy Giuliani dismisses report Michael Cohen claims Trump knew in advance of 2016 Trump Tower meeting https://t.co/xd4PFYYpcQ pic.twitter.com/9gxjNGWLRA Cuomo Prime Time (@CuomoPrimeTime) July 27, 2018But back on May 6, 2018, Giuliani sang a very different tune in his appearance on ABC’s This Week with George Stephanopoulos. According to the official ABC News transcript of the interview, Stephanopoulos asked:“Are you concerned at all that Michael Cohens going to cooperate with prosecutors?”Giuliani replied,No. I expect that he is going to cooperate with them. I dont think theyll be happy with it because he doesnt have any incriminating evidence about the president or himself. The man is an honest, honorable lawyer.”Watch the video of the interview excerpt here.Giuliani last night: Cohen “has lied all his life.”Giuliani in May: Michael Cohen is “an honest, honorable lawyer.” pic.twitter.com/FeQBd6TI1R Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 27, 2018In an ironic twist, the Stephanopoulos interview concerned contradictory statements made by Giuliani and Trump, not any contradictions coming from Cohen.In his Thursday interview with Cuomo, Giuliani says one must choose which version of events from Cohen to accept as truth, but in the following excerpt from the transcript of the May interview, the same can be said of Giuliani and Trump.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s crusade against the free press has reached new heights in recent weeks, even including the president referring to his own words as “fake news.” Trump has also referred to the press as “the real enemy of the people.”Fox News’ Shepard Smith has had enough.In a powerful segment Thursday afternoon, Smith tore into Trump’s relentless attacks on American media.“For those of you listening at home, journalists are not the enemy of the people. It’s quite the opposite.”??Shep: “For historically, those who regularly, and as a matter of pattern, attack the messenger, who degrade and belittle the purveyors of truth, and work to diminish the free press, often find the facts displeasing, and endeavor to keep you from knowing them. pic.twitter.com/8ms3OJtE8a Lis Power (@LisPower1) July 26, 2018“Our profession is enshrined in the Constitution, and the fourth estate holds the essential job of being your eyes and often your ears, and when appropriate, your voice,” Smith explained.The free press is a “cornerstone of our republic.”Smith then recited a list of major media networks, all of whom he said: “operate in the public interest.” Journalists “work to discern what is truth,then to present it to you with context and perspectives” while “striving to hold those in power to the same standards.”Watch Shep Smith, who again stands up for truth, justice and the American way. Shep keeps courageously speaking the truth to those who need to hear it. He is an America hero. https://t.co/cJOOF7UZI5— Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) July 27, 2018Smith continued: “This is the foundation of what we do, it’s our reason for being, our purpose.”Smith then issued a plea to his audience…Never have I personally misrepresented the truth to you. Our reports are checked, rechecked and approved at the highest editorial level at this network. In the event I make a mistake, I tell you and correct it in a timely and appropriate manner.…which was followed by a takedown of Trump and his endless attacks on journalists and the truth.As an aside, when the president attacks journalists, we question his motivation and try to discover the underlying reason. For historically, those who regularly and as a matter of pattern attack the messenger, who degrade and belittle the purveyors of truth, and work to diminish the free press,often find the facts displeasing, and endeavor to keep you from knowing them.“We are on guard,” Smith concludes, “and we hope that politics aside, for the greater good, you are too.”Some people on Twitter couldn’t believe what they had just heard from a Fox News anchor.Wha? Fox?— John Jenkins (@Oteachjohn) July 26, 2018Shep Smith has always been like this. Hes their token actual journalist with integrity.— Ashton Elijah Pittman (@ashtonpittman) July 27, 2018They have a handful of legacy journalists there from when they were still pretending to be "fair and balanced". Chris Wallace is a real journalist too.— BillJohnsonOH6=Putin () (@BAR_Engineer) July 27, 2018I grew up in a Republican family watching Fox News and listening to Rush Limbaugh everyday. I slowly realized they were not interested in the truth…it was entertainmentIt's gone from entertainment to PROPAGANDA— Texan (@Texan_21C) July 27, 2018Just imagine if @seanhannity @TheFive @IngrahamAngle @TuckerCarlson @SpecialReport @foxandfriends  and overall @FoxNews had the journalistic integrity  of @ShepNewsTeam … I would probably watch that and I bet more people would as well… #sad— PapaBear (@28highsociety) July 26, 2018Smith’s defense of the truth and of his profession was praised by folks on social media, who also shared their bewilderment as to why telling the truth is now considered “heroic.”	Liberal
President Donald Trump attacked his former attorney and fixer Michael Cohen earlier today and claimed he did not know about his son Donald Jr.’smeeting with Russians in Trump Tower during the 2016 election campaign.“I did NOT know of the meeting with my son, Don jr. Sounds to me like someone is trying to make up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?),” Trump tweeted earlier this morning after news outlets reported that Cohen revealed that Trump did, in fact, know about the meetingand that he’s willing to discuss the matter with special counsel Robert Mueller.…..I did NOT know of the meeting with my son, Don jr. Sounds to me like someone is trying to make up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam (Taxi cabs maybe?). He even retained Bill and Crooked Hillarys lawyer. Gee, I wonder if they helped him make the choice!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 27, 2018Lanny Davis, the attorney for Cohen mentioned in the president’s tweet, declined to comment. Davis previously worked as former President Bill Clinton’s special counsel.The president’s lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, had already denied the reports, saying that Cohen “can’t be believed unless it’s corroborated five times” and that Cohen has “been lying all week, he’s been lying for years.”“I talked to the president about this at length before as well as other witnesses and it’s not true. Why would you expect it would be true from someone like Cohen? A lawyer who would tape their own client is a lawyer without any character,” Giuliani added.Last year, Donald Trump Jr.came under firefor revealing that he met with a Russian lawyer during the 2016 presidential campaign.An intermediary for the lawyer promised damaging information about Hillary Clinton, the Democratic opponent. Trump Jr.s emailsIf its what you say I love it especially later in the summer, he wrotecontradict months of denials by the Trump administration of any collusion with Russian operatives.Trump Jr. and the others who attended the meeting (including the presidents son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner and former campaign chairman Paul Manafort) claimed nothing came ofit, insisting they met with attorney Natalia Veselnitskaya to discuss issues related to U.S. sanctions against Russia and the adoption of Russian children by Americans.Earlier yesterday, news reports revealed that Veselnitskaya worked more closely with senior Russian government officials than she’d previously let on, includingas a ghostwriter for top Russian government lawyers. At one point, she even received assistance from senior Interior Ministry personnel in a case involving a key client. TheAssociated Press obtained the data through the Dossier Center, a London-based investigative unit run byRussian opposition figure Mikhail Khodorkovsky.Although Veselnitskaya has not yet met with Mueller, she did meet with members of the Senate Intelligence Committee, who interviewed her in March and have sought to determine whether her appointment with members of the Trump campaignwas part of a Russian government effort to help Donald Trump win the White House. Veselnitskaya declined to meet with Senate investigators in the United States, saying she feared for her safety. Instead, she and the committees investigators metin a Berlin hotel on March 26 and talked for three hours.Alan Futerfas, an attorney for Trump Jr., attempted to quell the scandal with a statement of his own:We are very confident of the accuracy and reliability of the information that has been provided by Mr. Trump, Jr., and on his behalf.Sources who’ve discussed the matter with Cohen saythat he hopes his claim about the Trump Tower meeting and his willingness to talk with Robert Mueller could lessen his own legal troubles.Earlier this month, inhis first in-depthinterviewsince the FBIs April raid of his home and office, Cohen,who once said he would do anything for President Donald Trump, saidthat he now puts family and country first.My wife, my daughter and my son have my first loyalty and always will, Cohen told ABCs George Stephanopoulos in the off-camera interviewthat was reported on Good Morning America. I put family and country first.ABC NEWS EXCLUSIVE: Pres. Trump's former personal attorney Michael Cohen, facing FBI scrutiny, mum on commitment to his longtime client: To be crystal clear, my wife, my daughter and my son, and this country have my first loyalty. https://t.co/WnJwC10Ptl pic.twitter.com/q1Dk9zqwlx— ABC News (@ABC) July 2, 2018My wife, my daughter and my son have my first loyalty, and always will, Michael Cohen told me https://t.co/svj067Z314 pic.twitter.com/CTm7wLoEMR— GeorgeStephanopoulos (@GStephanopoulos) July 2, 2018When asked if he was consideringcooperating with prosecutors in their probe, Cohen responded that he would defer to Guy Petrillo, his attorney, for advice. Cohens responses, notably how he didnt repeat past vows to do anything for the president, coupled with the fact a joint defense agreement Cohen shared with the president, which allowed their lawyers to share information and documents with each other, would come to an end once Petrillo assumes his role, prompted Stephanopoulos to observe that the legal interests of the president of the United States and his longtime personal attorney could quickly become adversarial.Cohen defended himself, too, when asked how he might respond should the president and his legal team attempt to discredit the work he did for Trump over the last decade.I will not be a punching bag as part of anyones defense strategy, Cohen said. I am not a villain of this story, and I will not allow others to try to depict me that way.Of Special Counsel Robert Muellers investigation into Russian interference, Cohen was similarly direct, repeating previous denials that he had any involvement with Russian operatives or their attempts to thwart the 2016 presidential election. He did not, however, criticize Mueller.I dont like the term witch hunt, Cohen said.As an American, I repudiate Russias or any other foreign governments attempt to interfere or meddle in our democratic process, and I would call on all Americans to do the same.	Liberal
In a new report fromThe New York Times, three unnamed sources state Special Counsel Robert Mueller in his duties assigned by the Department of Justice (DoJ) began examining some of the Twitter posts of President Donald Trump. What are they looking for?Evidence of obstruction of justice.Of particular import are Twitter posts and negative statements the President made concerning former Federal Bureau of Investigation director James Comey, former FBI deputy Andrew McCabe and his own appointed Attorney General, Jeff Sessions. All three men were longtime Republicans.Comey stated in his congressional testimony that Trump also privately pressured him and the others in the FBI and DoJ about the investigation. Mueller’s review examines whether the actions, including publicly available tweets, equal a willful attempt to obstruct the investigation by intimidating witnesses and pressuring senior law enforcement officials.The definition of obstruction of justice is:the crime or act of willfully interfering with the process of justice and law especially by influencing, threatening, harming, or impeding a witness, potential witness, juror, or judicial or legal officer or by furnishing false information in or otherwise impeding an investigation or legal process.The first Tweets reported to be under review came after Trump fired James Comey in May 2017. That July, Trump tweeted disparaging remarks about the man he hand-picked to be Attorney General.In it Trump calls Sessions’ position on a non-existent crime “weak.” According to White House aides, Trump expressed anger at the time over Sessions choice to follow standard ethics guidelines and recuse himself from the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.Many saw his lashing out at Sessions on Twitter as a sign of that anger. Trump also thought of firing Sessions at the time according to the same sources.Attorney General Jeff Sessions has taken a VERY weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes (where are E-mails & DNC server) & Intel leakers! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 25, 2017A day later, Trump attacked McCabe, the man who replaced Comey as the acting Director of the FBI from May 9, 2017 until August 2, 2017. In August, he returned to his position as Deputy Director.In the following tweets, Trump again tried to create a case against Clinton.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has long vilified NFL players taking a knee during the playing of the national anthem in protest of the disenfranchisement of black Americans, but now even Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones thinks Trump’s interest in the issue has gone too far. It’s surprising, considering that Jones not only supports a ban on kneeling or even staying in the locker room. Jones also said that the Cowboys would maintain ties with Papa John’s despite the founder’s use of a racial slur.The Dallas Cowboys owner spoke out against Trump’s continued hostility toward the players:His interest in what we’re doing is problematic from my chair, and I would say in general the owners’ chair…It’s unprecedented if you really think about it. Yes I would like — everybody would like — for it to go away.Jones’s stance is at odds with the NFL’s acquiescence to Trump and his base. Earlier this year, the organization banned kneeling on the field during the national anthem in what was seen by many as a violation of free speech. After immense outcry, the policy was suspended last week.Trump has routinely maligned NFL players who choose to kneel during the national anthem, even going so far as to say that they “shouldn’t be in the country.” He revived his ire for it yet again earlier this week.The NFL National Anthem Debate is alive and well again – cant believe it! Isnt it in contract that players must stand at attention, hand on heart? The $40,000,000 Commissioner must now make a stand. First time kneeling, out for game. Second time kneeling, out for season/no pay!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 20, 2018“Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country,” the president (who previouslysided with Vladimir Putin over his own intelligence agencies, vouched for the credibility of white supremacists, and dodged the draft five times) said in a tweet last year.Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country. NFL should change policy!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017The NFL listened to Trump and imposed its ban on kneeling less than a year later.Jerry Jones isn’t the only owner wary of Trump’s obsessive involvement and questionable influence over the organization.	Liberal
Yesterday, President Donald Trump met with European Union Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker at the White House to discuss the future of U.S.-E.U. trade amidst the fallout of Trump’s steep tariffs on imported European goods.Today, the Wall Street Journal reported that Juncker used “a dozen colorful cue cards with simplified explainers” to navigate his way through negotiations with the 72-year-old president, who is notorious for failing to prepare for meetings or do his homework on complex global economic issues.How bravado, flip cards and a White House ally helped European official sell Trump on trade detente https://t.co/nXc0Z0bM75— The Wall Street Journal (@WSJ) July 26, 2018Juncker admitted he didn’t know how the meeting with Trump would go, telling associates on his flight from Brussels when asked if he had any expectations: “No. Well have to see how it goes.” One thing Juncker was prepared for, though, was the possibility of standing up to Trump. And boy, did he.https://twitter.com/Coquii73/status/1022572055500349443On the subject of tariffs, which Trump enacted this spring and which have disrupted trading markets and threatened to squeeze American and European economies, Juncker warned Trump to be smart about his next moves.“If you want to be stupid,” Juncker reportedly said to the president. “I can be stupid, as well.”Juncker then used “colorful cue cards” with “simplified explainers,” an E.U. official told WSJ, each of which had at most “three figures about a specific topic, such as trade in cars or standards for medical devices.”Jean-Claude Juncker used "a dozen colorful cue cards with simplified explainers" to negotiate with Trump, WSJ rpts.Each card had at most 3 figures about a topic, like trade in cars.If you want to be stupid," he told Trump, "I can be stupid, as well."https://t.co/WPW9UWF74L— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 26, 2018The unnamed official acknowledged that expectations were low.“We knew this wasnt an academic seminar,” the E.U. official said. “It had to be very simple.”Twitter savagely pounced on the news, laughing at the ridiculousness of Trump having to be treated like a grade-schooler.Jean-Claude Juncker is my new hero, right there next to Mueller and @MichaelAvenatti!— Determinedly Dawn (@viewsfordays) July 26, 2018Did Juncker give Trump a souvenir coloring book to take home, too?— Diane  (@jidgeMist) July 26, 2018Yeah, but Trump ate the crayons.— Kroppduster (@Kroppduster) July 26, 2018"We knew this wasn't an academic seminar. It had to be very simple."@realDonaldTrump is a mental lightweight, and everyone knows it. Bright colors, shiny objects, simple words and a Happy Meal are the keys to negotiating with him… but you'd better have the right toy.— Rev Geo (@dodgergeo) July 26, 2018Lol, "stable genius" … pic.twitter.com/NCYyDYGz8c— OK_Dumbass (@OK_Dumbass) July 26, 2018But others were disturbed that this is what it’s come to.	Liberal
Les Brown famously said: Shoot for the moon, and if you miss, you will still be among the stars. Now, you might instead find yourself among criminals. This appears to be the case for a Tennessee woman named Laura Murray Cicco, who claims to have a vial of moondust in her possession. According to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (or NASA), private persons cannot own lunar material and doing so is considered a federal crime. Ms. Cicco asserts that she was gifted this vial of moondust from Neil Armstrong, one of the astronauts that participated in the Apollo 11 mission; notably, the first human set foot upon the moon. And she intends to sue NASA to maintain her ownership of the moondust.Extraterrestrial materials brought back to Earth via the United States space program have been declared government property by NASA. Approximately 840 pounds of lunar material were transported back to Earth during moon missions from 1969 to 1972. The majority of the collected material has been stored in vaults at NASA facilities since that time. Several of the moon rocks were gifted by President Nixon to various nations around the world as a sign of good will, which were later referred to as the goodwill moon rocks. However, it has been estimated about 180 of the 270 moon rocks brought to Earth by NASA are unaccounted for, which has prompted the government to investigate. In 1998, NASA sought to crack down on the sale of normal rocks being fraudulently advertised as genuine moon rocks in a sting operation spearheaded by the Office of the Inspector General called Operation Lunar Eclipse. An advertisement seeking the purchase of moon rocks was placed in USA Today to lure sellers of bogus lunar materials. Unexpectedly, this operation led to the recovery of a bonafide moon rock from the Apollo missions, which turned out to be the goodwill moon rock given to Honduras.Since then, additional authentic moon rocks have been successfully recovered by authorities. These include the goodwill moon rocks given to the states of Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado, Hawaii, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oregon and West Virginia as well as those gifted to the countries of Canada, Cyprus, Honduras (as mentioned above), Ireland and Nicaragua.Moreover, there have been outright thefts of lunar material from several different locations including the Johnson Space Center, the National Air and Space Museum, the Louisiana Science and Nature Center, as well as from vehicles transporting NASA items. The heist of moon samples from the Johnson Space Center involved a group of interns, which became the subject of a book written by Ben Mezrich: Sex on the Moon: The Amazing Story Behind the Most Audacious Heist in History.Ms. Cicco was prompted to sue the government after a NASA sting operation in 2011 that apprehended an elderly woman trying to sell small fragments of moon rock. The woman in question, Joann Davis, was the widow of former NASA engineer Robert Davis, who had also received the lunar rocks from Neil Armstrong when Davis was in charge of the Apollo 11 program. When she was pressed with a desperate financial situation, she attempted to sell the moon rocks and contacted NASA directly, seeking their assistance in finding a buyer. However, the Office of the Inspector General at NASA interpreted this as criminal activity and arranged a meeting with Ms. Davis, where she was detained and interrogated by armed federal agents. This resulted in her suing the federal government for her detention that was described in the court case as unreasonableunreasonably prolonged and unnecessarily degrading. Ultimately, Ms. Daviss case was dismissed in court.Complicating the situation for Ms. Cicco is the possibility that the moondust may not be genuine. Some experts doubt that Neil Armstrong would have actually gifted lunar material to civilians. Her attorney submitted the moondust sample for analysis via X-ray diffraction spectroscopy, which revealed that the minerals from the purported vial of moondust were consistent with lunar soil. However, the minerals were similar to those found in the lunar highlands, which is a region of the moon that Armstrong had never visited. Thus, questions remain about the authenticity of Ciccos moondust.The legality of the governments claim on all lunar materials is up for some debate. In 1967, the United States and more than 100 other nations ratified the Outer Space Treaty. This treaty stipulated that no country could claim ownership of any extraterrestrial land or celestial body. However, the precedent has been established that extraterrestrial materials intended for scientific research can be claimed by the nations involved in the treaty. This is where NASA exerts its authority of all lunar rocks and soil samples.NASA contends that Neil Armstrong did not have permission to gift moon material to anyone. This has drawn the ire of some who view this as impugning the reputation of an American space hero.	Liberal
Twitter shares fell four percent in afternoon trading today after President Donald Trump claimed that Twitter is limiting the visibility of prominent conservative voices on its platform.The president claimed that Twitter is “SHADOW BANNING prominent Republicans,” a response toa story in VICE Magazine which alleged accounts owned by Republicans like Ronna McDaniel, the current chair of the Republican National Committee, were showing up in a general search of the website, but did not automatically populate when typing their names in the drop-down bar.Twitter SHADOW BANNING prominent Republicans. Not good. We will look into this discriminatory and illegal practice at once! Many complaints.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2018Twitter responded soon after, saying the company does not “shadow ban” its users. The company acknowledged that some accountswere not automatically populating but said that this is the result of a platform bug they are working to fix:We are aware that some accounts are not automaticallypopulatingin our search box, and shipping a change to address this. The profiles, tweetsanddiscussions about these accounts do appear when you search for them. To be clear, our behavioral ranking doesnt make judgments based on political views or the substance of tweets.AsSlate noted in its own analysis, the recent “kerfuffle over” shadow banning:…came about after Twitter implemented a new strategy to fight troll-like behaviors. The company wrotein a May blog postthat it was making some changes to its search bar: People contributing to the healthy conversation will be more visible in conversations and search.Twitter’s product lead Kayvon Beykpour reiterated the company’sstatement in messages posted to his own account, saying that in May the company started using “behavioral signals and machine learning to reduce people’s ability to detract from healthy public conversation on Twitter.”Weve heard questions from some of you relating to our work to drive healthy conversation on Twitter. People are asking us 1) about the breadth and precision of our work & 2) the impact of our work on the Search experience. We wanted to address these questions transparently here.— Kayvon Beykpour (@kayvz) July 25, 2018In May, we started using behavioral signals and machine learning to reduce peoples ability to detract from healthy public conversation on Twitter. This approach looks at account behavior & interactions with other accounts that violate our rules. https://t.co/FsLO6NwyNw— Kayvon Beykpour (@kayvz) July 25, 2018Beykpour added that Twitter is “always working to improve our behavior-based ranking models – their breadth and accuracy will improve over time.”On 1) Were always working to improve our behavior-based ranking models – their breadth and accuracy will improve over time. Its important to note that these behavior signals are not binary, and they are one of many other signals that factor into ranking.— Kayvon Beykpour (@kayvz) July 25, 2018He further noted that Twitter’s “behavioral ranking” does not judge account users “based on political views or the substance of tweets.”To be clear, our behavioral ranking doesnt make judgements based on political views or the substance of tweets. We recently publicly testified to Congress on this topic https://t.co/Zk4DL7Q3hq— Kayvon Beykpour (@kayvz) July 25, 2018On 2) Some accounts werent being auto-suggested even when people were searching for their specific name. Our usage of the behavior signals within search was causing this to happen & making search results seem inaccurate. Were making a change today that will improve this.— Kayvon Beykpour (@kayvz) July 25, 2018We believe this work is really important to creating a healthier Twitter and we want to continue improving. Your feedback helps us do that so please keep it coming.— Kayvon Beykpour (@kayvz) July 25, 2018But these statements have done little to reassure Republicans who continue to insist that the platform is censoring them. Among the most vocal accusers are pro-Trumpbloggers Lynette Diamond Hardaway and Rochelle Silk Richardson, who’ve also accused Facebook and other social media sites of banning them. Speaking at an April 26 House Judiciary Committee hearing on the filtering practices of social media platforms,” the two women claimed:Facebook along with other social media sites have taken aggressive actions to silence conservative voices such as ourselves by deliberately restricting and weaponizing our page with algorithms that censored and suppress our free speech. These bias algorithms are tactics designed to pick up on keywords, thus telling the pages how to behave in ways that repress and stifles expressed ideas including Shadow banning, which blocked our content from being seen by our followers while depriving our brand through the demonetization of our videos. Followers stop receiving notifications when we posted videos & content. Followers were also mysteriously unliked from our page.President Trump’s claim, meanwhile, has faced heated criticism, with at least one user pointing out that his tweet violates federal laws which prohibit government employees from using or permitting the use of their “Government position or title or any authority associated with [his] public office in a manner that could reasonably be construed to imply that his agency or the Government sanctions or endorses his personal activities or those of another.”Trumps tweet is a violation of federal law. (https://t.co/coCqsFfSkP) @CREWcrew pic.twitter.com/IF483cobWb— Smith (@WriteSmitty) July 26, 2018Trumps use of his official position to coerce Twitter to benefit his political associates is a violation of federal law. @CREWcrew (https://t.co/coCqsFfSkP) pic.twitter.com/q8m585TAWO— Smith (@WriteSmitty) July 26, 2018Others have signalled their support for the president’s statements, with one user even asking him to “check in” with YouTube, a nod to reports that the video-sharing website cracked down on Infowars personality and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones.Then check in with the folks over @YouTube please @realDonaldTrump – this blatant censorship of conservative, Constitutionally protected speech and the outright banning of entire channels dedicated to TRUTH, must be brought to heel.— SGTreport (@SGTreport) July 26, 2018YouTube removed four videos from Jones’ channel that allegedly contained instances of hate speech and child endangerment. The company also issued one strike to Jones’ account.“We have longstanding policies against child endangerment and hate speech, a YouTube representative said in a statement. “We apply our policies consistently according to the content in the videos, regardless of the speaker or the channel. We also have a clear three-strikes policy and we terminate channels when they receive three strikes in three months.”The president has often been criticized for using the office of the presidency to attack private businesses, as his longstanding feuds with Amazon andThe Washington Postboth of which are owned by billionaire Jeff Bezoscan attest.But while this instance serves as an example of the president leveling attacks against corporate policiesin this case imaginary oneswhich he claims impact those among his core supporters,the president is not above criticizing a companys policies if they directly impact his family members.	Liberal
Oh, the open office. A trendy design concept. What it looks like: No walls, a clean sweep of open desk surface populated by laptop-tapping employees, supposedly communicating and collaborating like never before. What it feels like: A fishbowl, a nude beach, a factory floor, a large room filled with stressed employees desperately trying to block each other out with headphones. Employers still love the idea of the open office, because its cheap, stylish, maximizes real estate and enables constant surveillance of employees. But the evidence continues to stack up against the actual benefits. It turns out the much-vaunted collaboration that is supposed to arise in an open office environment doesnt happen; in fact, just the opposite occurs.Researchers from Harvard Business School and Harvard University examined interpersonal collaborations between workers in multinational companies that were transforming their headquarters to open office plans. The same workers were studied for eight weeks in their previous traditional office environment and eight weeks in the new open office space.“To our knowledge, no prior study has directly measured the effect onactual interactionthat results from removing spatial boundaries to create an open office environment,” saidEthan S. Bernstein and Stephen Turban, authors of the study The Impact of Open Offices on Human Collaboration.Turban and Bernstein found that instead of collaborating more, the volume of face-to-face interaction between employees decreased about 70 percent. There was an associated increase in electronic interaction; Instead of talking to coworkers they could actually see across the desk, employees were emailing or instant messaging them. The open office appeared to trigger a natural human response to socially withdraw from officemates; when you visually interact with people all day, talking to them feels like a bridge too far. Workers are socially tapped out just by seeing each other all day. 	Liberal
On Thursday morning, President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer tweeted,“Please be warned that Avenati[sic] is becoming desperate since he is being ignored. The Cohen-Cuomo tape makes clear Daniel[sic] claim is dead and with it Avenatis[sic] meal ticket. Most media now consider him too much of a proven liar to put on. Any reliance is gross negligence.”Please be warned that Avenati is becoming desperate since he is being ignored. The Cohen-Cuomo tape makes clear Daniel claim is dead and with it Avenatis meal ticket. Most media now consider him too much of a proven liar to put on. Any reliance is gross negligence. Rudy Giuliani (@RudyGiuliani) July 26, 2018Michael Avenatti, the lawyer maligned in Giuliani’s tweet responded on Twitter Thursday as well, stating,You are a walking train wreck of a lawyer Rudy. Each time you open your mouth, it is a disaster. Where are all the tapes? Release them! Our case is over because Trumps criminal co-conspirator said so? Lets debate the facts and the law – any show any time. Put up or shut up!”You are a walking train wreck of a lawyer Rudy. Each time you open your mouth, it is a disaster. Where are all the tapes? Release them! Our case is over because Trumps criminal co-conspirator said so? Lets debate the facts and the law – any show any time. Put up or shut up! https://t.co/lNPl9n4QgA Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) July 26, 2018Avenatti went on to challenge Giuliani to an on air debate on one of his and the President’s favorite venues, Sean Hannity’s Fox News program..@RudyGiuliani Call your good buddy @seanhannity and let’s go on his show and discuss the facts and the law relating to Stormy Daniels, Michael Cohen and Mr. Trump. Let’s do it any day next week. And if you will not do this, you need to pipe down and go crawl back under that rock Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) July 26, 2018Avenatti represents Stephanie Clifford, a woman Trump eventually admitted to paying $130,000 just prior to the 2016 presidential election through his longtime fixer, lawyer Michael Cohen. Clifford who works as an actress, writer and director in adult films under the name Stormy Daniels alleged an affair with Trump, but Trump paid her to remain silent.The President received ridicule for his many versions of his involvement with Clifford before finally admitting his lawyer paid her. The same pattern of false statements before evidence required revealing the truth still dogs the President regarding the Trump Tower meeting with a Russian government operative.Giuliani made the media rounds, discrediting facts harmful to his client and defending Trump in the court of public opinion, eversince the former New York City mayor and lawyer joined the private legal team of President Donald Trump. However Giuliani’s version of events or facts routinely gets refuted.But as Judge Andrew Napolitano put it on Fox News, Giuliani does not disseminate facts. “He’s also serving as the presidents PR person, trying to undermine public credibility” in the many legal issues facing Trump.In the course of his spin doctoring, Giuliani also tackles some of Trump’s detractors either in interviews or on Twitter. Those confrontations rarely favor the embattled former mayor either.In today’s exchange on Twitter, Giuliani fared no better than normal. Twitter users responded with a few facts of their own for Trump’s lawyer.	Liberal
White House correspondents are calling out President Donald Trump on Twitter for evading their questions on his way to Air Force One. Typically, presidents arrive at Joint Base Andrews–where Air Force One is housed–by helicopter. While walking to the helicopter from the White House, reporters have a chance to shout their questions at the president. He often takes them.However, White House correspondents did not get that chance today since the President was escorted to Andrews by motorcade instead.The explanation? Apparently, the White House informed the press pool that the change was due to “bad weather.” Specifically “fog.”Via the pool reporter today (it's @FoxNews repping the networks) who asked the White House what's up: "Was told the reason for the bad weather call is 'bad weather.' Pressed further, am told there is fog."— Hallie Jackson (@HallieJackson) July 26, 2018Some took to Twitter to share just what this “bad weather” looked like in DC today:View from my office window as the White House makes a bad weather call – meaning the president will take a car to Andrews, rather than depart via his helicopter from the South Lawn where reporters can gather to shout questions at him. pic.twitter.com/csRYnCmbGI— Hallie Jackson (@HallieJackson) July 26, 2018There is a bad weather call on Trumps departure – so no questions today. pic.twitter.com/hEraTo4jbK— Geoff Earle (@GeoffEarle) July 26, 2018As did members of the general public.The White House said Trump wasnt using the helicopter due to bad weather.The White House is 5 minutes by air from where this photo was taken. Over under those sun-kissed clouds. #WhiteHouse #Trump .@JoyAnnReid @Lawrence @GiGicmka #StormyWeather .@maddow @hardball @RVAwonk pic.twitter.com/ZDu3RlxPHc— RareBeauty (@RareBeautyGems) July 26, 2018"White House aides informed the press corps Trump would motorcade to Andrews due to "bad weather," a setting that makes the president unavailable to take questions."Meanwhile, the weather in DC … pic.twitter.com/01yNlK6GPM— Straight Talker (@SomeRandomGuy5) July 26, 2018The mockery was swift.Trump's new language. 'Bad Weather' now stands for being a Coward— Puddy (@Puddy2011) July 26, 2018Why no press? Bad weather? I guess it's just bad weather in your alternate reality, huh? Guess it's storming Cohen tapes, bout a hundred!— Mary Roberson (@robersonma) July 26, 2018The president’s ire toward the press has been consistent throughout his campaign and onto his presidency. This week has been no different.	Liberal
President Donald Trump shared the results of a recent job approval rating poll on Twitter, but social media users noticed that the president may be overlooking some important details.“Thank you very much,” Trump tweeted Wednesday afternoon in response to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll which showed the president with an 88 percent approval rating. “Working hard!”Thank you very much, working hard! pic.twitter.com/cSzbFfq2NW— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 25, 2018Trouble is, that 88 percent is solely among Republicans, who represent a shrinking bloc of the American voting electorate.Twitter jumped on this, mercilessly. pic.twitter.com/rCZQThFTMM— Adam Parkhomenko (@AdamParkhomenko) July 25, 2018AMONG REPUBLICANS! This is worth nothing.— Thorsten (@Airvooocht) July 25, 2018And that lines up with the number of eligible voters who voted for him. So, roughly 75% of the country is against him. Oooohhhhh, so much winning. #TwitInChief— Korinne M Jackman (@krinnymj) July 26, 2018https://twitter.com/radioradiation/status/1022256680170532864One user did the math, and the 88 percent of Republicans who approve of the job Trump is doing constitute, at most, 23 percent of the country."Among Republicans." Just 27% of the population identify as Republican.  So 88% of 27% equates to around 23% of Americans.  So, less than 1 in 4.  Might want to rethink your glee.— stonecircle (@stone_circle) July 26, 2018Read the fine print–that's 88% among Republicans. But then, you never let the facts get in the way of truth and context.— Samra Jones Bufkins MJ,APR (@Samjb) July 26, 2018Republicans are 26% of the voting population.If 88% of Republicans approve, that means 22% of the overall voting population approve of what you are doing.No President has ever held such consistently low numbers.70% of Americans are appalled by you and cant wait for you to go. pic.twitter.com/NUhXFmprfx— Sunshinegirl (@Sunshin26946324) July 26, 2018Others noted that voter turnout in 2016 was also low. Trump lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton by nearly three million votes.And that lines up with the number of eligible voters who voted for him. So, roughly 75% of the country is against him. Oooohhhhh, so much winning. #TwitInChief— Korinne M Jackman (@krinnymj) July 26, 2018 pic.twitter.com/0NUJODd59n— Oliver G. Hardley (@oliverg2014) July 25, 2018Among Republicans. Take a look at the Quinnipiac poll and others. Youre the most hated man in the U.S. and the world!— Virginia McDonald (@GinnyMac55) July 26, 2018*Among [the small & dwindling] Republican [Party]But, see what the majority thinks:https://t.co/pKzmpU6xje— Jessica Goldman (@jlgoldmankeen) July 26, 2018You do realize this is not a majority of the population. This is just among the GOP.  You are supposed to be the president of all Americans. When are you going to start acting like it? #BeAUnifierNotADivider— Patti Cook (@wewillresist2) July 26, 2018Trump would be wise to read the fine print on this poll because the numbers don’t look great for him. While 88 percent of Republicans either approve or strongly approve of his job performance, only 45 percent of all registered voters felt the same way, the poll found.Among Democrats, Trump’s approval sits at an abysmal nine percent. The president’s numbers among independents are also circling the drain, with just 36 percent saying they approve of his performance. Independent voters are essential for victory in November’s midterm elections.The poll also showed that 52 percent of those surveyed disapprove of Trump, and that number climbs to 58 percent among Independents and skyrockets to 89 percent among Democrats.NBC surveyed 900 registered voters from July 15-18 by landline and cell phone. The poll has a margin of error of 3.3 percentage points.Indeed, July has been a rough month for the president’s job approval ratings. Numerous other polls have shown that voters are tiring of Trump.	Liberal
During the 2016 presidential campaign, President Donald Trump vowed his business holdings would be a non-issue because he would remove himself from all day to day operations and put the businesses in a “blind trust” to be run solely by his sons.While that is not how a blind trust works, the vow never came to fruition post-election anyway, particularly as it pertains to theTrump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., which Trump still has ownership of.Now seven religious and civic leaders in Washington DC plan to use Trump’s decision to remain heavily involved in his private businesses, and his moral character, against him.The group, comprised of three reverends, two rabbis and two federal court judges,petitioned theAdvisory Neighborhood Commission 4C (ANC 4C) of Washington DC to revoke Donald Trump’s liquor license issued to him and still in his name for the Trump International Hotel in Washington DC. The reason? The President lacks good moral character.ANC 4C voted unanimously to support the petition and forwarded the petition to the District of Columbia Alcohol Beverage Control Board, who provides oversight for liquor licenses. According toZach Teutsch, a commissioner in ANC 4C,We would be taking a similar action towards any high-profile community member that has a long, detailed public history of dishonesty, civil and criminal accusations.”The seven DC spiritual and civic leaders cited a provision of the liquor licensing laws covering Washington DC which states the license holder must be of “good moral character.” The President, their petition states, falls far short in that regard.Their original complaint, filed in April, stated,Donald Trump, the true and actual owner of the Trump International Hotel, is not a person of good character.”And they provided examples.	Liberal
The head of Iran’s special forces fired a warning shot at U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday, saying in a speech that Iran would “destroy all that you possess should a military conflict break out between the Middle Eastern country and the United States.The head of Irans special forces has delivered a blistering speech in which he repeatedly threatened President Trump, telling him that war with the country will destroy all that you possess" https://t.co/3x4cdTRlYg— The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) July 26, 2018Quds force chief Qassem Soleimani’s remarks, which were broadcast onAl Alam TV in Arabic, represent the latest round of increasingly hostile rhetoric between Iran and the United States.You know that this war will destroy all that you possess. You will start this war but we will be the ones to impose its end,” Soleimani said in his speech. “Therefore you have to be careful about insulting the Iranian people and the president of our Republic.”Iran's top general responds to Trumps threat of war: "we are ready" https://t.co/wJKbL6lf1z pic.twitter.com/Z8RIc6WFPi— VICE News (@vicenews) July 26, 2018Soleimani added:You know our power in the region and our capabilities in asymmetric war. We will act and we will work.On Sunday night, Trump tweeted an all-caps warning to Rouhani to “NEVER, EVER THREATEN THE UNITED STATES AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE.”To Iranian President Rouhani: NEVER, EVER THREATEN THE UNITED STATES AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE. WE ARE NO LONGER A COUNTRY THAT WILL STAND FOR YOUR DEMENTED WORDS OF VIOLENCE & DEATH. BE CAUTIOUS!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2018Soleimani said “as a soldier” it was his “duty to respond to Trump’s threats” and that if Trump “wants to use the language of threat… he should talk to me, not to the president.”“I am your foe,” Soleimani said, taking a direct shot at Trump, “and my Quds Force is your foe.”Soleimani continued:There isn’t a night where we do not think about you in our sleep. I tell you, Mr. Trump, the gambler, I tell you that at this moment when you are incapable of thinking, we are closer to you in a place you never even imagined.To be fair DT doesnt possess much. Most of what he has is leveraged by Russia.— blurryf (@blurryf182) July 26, 2018Trump’s tweet was in response to a statement by Rouhani, in which the Iranian leader cautioned that Trump’s hawkish attitude toward Iran could lead to “the mother of all wars.” pic.twitter.com/y6ijapk6Iv— Annie Doyle (@AnnieDoily) July 26, 2018Dont play with fire, or you will regret, theIslamic Republic News Agencyreported on Sunday. We are noble people and we have guaranteed in the history security of the Strait in the region.Voices within Trump’s administration have echoed the president’s aggressive stance against Iran.	Liberal
After CNN White House correspondent Kaitlan Collins was banned from President Donald Trump’s Rose Garden event with the president of the European Commission on Wednesday, Fox News veteran Bret Baierwho hostsSpecial Report with Bret Baier on the networkcame to her defense.Speaking in his capacity as a fellow member of the White House Press Pool, Baier said he, along with Fox News, “stands firmly” with CNN on the issue of press access.As a member of the White House Press pool- @FoxNews stands firmly with @CNN on this issue and the issue of access https://t.co/TFwfLQtP9h— Bret Baier (@BretBaier) July 25, 2018The White House, via press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, claimed that Collins had asked “inappropriate questions.Collins asked twice: “Did Michael Cohen betray you, Mr. President?” Then she asked, “Mr. President, are you worried about what Michael Cohen is about to say to the prosecutors? Are you worried about what is on the other tapes, Mr. President?” She alsotried asking: “Why is Vladimir Putin not accepting your invitation, Mr. President?”Collins was then reprimanded by Sanders andcommunications chief Bill Shine and told she’d been banned from the Rose Garden event.Baier’s comment did not go over very well with many of his conservative followers, who sided with the president’s decision to curb Collins’s access to the event.Some went so far as to say that Baier’s defense of CNNthe network the president has denigrated as “fake news” more often than any otherhad turned them off of watching Fox News altogether.Bret, its called decorum… the press pool has lost their way… if they acted with a modicum of dignity, they might begin to receive respect.Stop the grandstanding for ratings… America sees you!No more Fox News for me.— Marc (@USAMensaDropout) July 26, 2018Well they should NOT stand with @CNN whose rude interactions with the POTUS and Pres Secretary have been tolerated for far too long. All reporters should be required to act like adults not wild animals snarling at the President. Free Press should be a Responsible Press.— AmaUSA (@AmLeUSA) July 25, 2018Say it again, this person was RUDE! You be rude and we will gladly accept the White House banning you. What is hard to understand about that?— Rod Gonzalez (@Rgonzo111) July 26, 2018CNN's 'reporters' act more like protesters.  There has to be some standards about who is given access to the president.— Mark Dice (@MarkDice) July 25, 2018I can't stand with you on that, Bret. Yellow journalism is not only blatantly over the top, it also adds a disquieting voice to a segment of society that doesn't need anymore encouragement to be violent. Take a knee on that one, bro.— domenick palumbo (@domenickpal) July 25, 2018Baier, for his part, has taken the criticisms gracefully and has even fired back at some of his more passionate opponents.When Sam Donaldson would yell questions at Ronald Reagan – what do you think folks supporting the President called him? https://t.co/oDnpodHpXR— Bret Baier (@BretBaier) July 26, 2018Baier took one social media user to task after they implied that CNN had not come to the defense of Fox News before. Baier responded that CNN anchor Jake Tapper had, in fact, defended Fox News in the past.When President Obamas administration left us out of round robin interviews  CNN and @jaketapper spoke out for us.  As a member of the WH press pool – on the news side – thats what is supposed to happen. https://t.co/cDci9VUxJP— Bret Baier (@BretBaier) July 26, 2018Tapper confirmed Baier’s version of events:I was sticking up for James Rosen on air, Boo Boo. Where were you?https://t.co/x7oZFH1IKB— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) July 26, 2018When one social media user suggested that members of the press should try “raising” their hand when attempting to ask questions during White House press briefings, Baier had this to say:Thats not how it works at the White House for whats called a pool spray.  Never has been. https://t.co/M70VjB7hvr— Bret Baier (@BretBaier) July 26, 2018Baier also shut down another user who accused him of being a member of the “deep state.”Actually youre wrong.   But thank you for weighing in. https://t.co/6bsFCoItW5— Bret Baier (@BretBaier) July 26, 2018And when another individual claimed that Baier’s defense of CNN doesn’t “make you ethical, it cheapens you,” Baier reiterated what members of the White House press pool stand for: Access.Sorry you feel that way.   They are members of the WH press pool.  Kaitlan was doing what pool reporters do. We stand for access for WH reporters-no matter what you think about their coverage. Again -no Reagan supporter loved Sam Donaldson-but he was there-always. https://t.co/X8Oa7IQT6z— Bret Baier (@BretBaier) July 26, 2018Baier is not the only journalist to criticize the White House’s decisionfar from it. Reporters fromThe Washington Post, NBC, and PBS (among others) weighed in on the controversy.Today the White House retaliated against CNNs @kaitlancollins for doing her jobwhich was to ask questions of the president about news of the day. The action by WH was totally unjustified and outrageous.— Dan Balz (@danbalz) July 26, 2018What @kaitlancollins did today — ask the president questions — is what every reputable journalist must do. That is our job. We do it just about every day, and most days Trump answers. Today, he decided to retaliate by barring Kaitlan from his press event.— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) July 25, 2018As today's radio pooler, I was in the Oval Office with @kaitlancollins, heard her questions, thought they were good and timely ones, and find an official government sanction in response to them an absolute, stunning outrage.— Steven Portnoy (@stevenportnoy) July 25, 2018Adding my voice to those coming to the defense of @kaitlancollins. Asking the president questions about a timely topic during a pool spray is exactly what WH reporters do. Good to see other networks banding together with CNN because Kaitlan could have been any WH reporter today.— Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) July 26, 2018CNN objected to the decision to ban Collins, calling it“retaliatory in nature” and “not indicative of an open and free press.”“Just because the White House is uncomfortable with a question regarding the news of the day doesn’t mean the question isn’t relevant and shouldn’t be asked,” the network said.The White House Correspondents’ Association (WHCA) also condemned“the White House’s misguided and inappropriate decision today to bar one of our members from an open press event after she asked questions they did not like.”But Sanders, in a statement of her own, maintained that the White House had made the right call.	Liberal
American medical care is currently in shambles. Compounding the difficulties surrounding our fractured system is the issue of how immigrants receive appropriate healthcare. Another cause of doctor burnout: Being forced to give immigrants unequal care. https://t.co/5A6bn1IZPb— NBC News (@NBCNews) June 1, 2018An article released by NBC News details the story of Dr. Lilia Cervantes, a physician who treated an undocumented patient who didnt have government insurance and, as a result, received inadequate medical care to treat her kidney disease. Over the course of three years, the mother-of-three visited the emergency room multiple times for kidney failure. During that time, the patient has flatlined more than once and eventually decided to stop further treatments, due to the stress on her body and the emotional toll on her children.Often, emergency medical services are the only option for undocumented individuals. Emergency kidney treatments, such as dialysis, have a hugely negative impact on the human body. The risk of death for someone only receiving emergency medical care for kidney disease is 14 times higher than someone who has access to consistent and stable treatment. Medical professionals who treat these patients are often unable to provide the medically-warranted standard of care. They are often required to deny care to visibly ill patients whose condition is not deemed serious enough to require emergency medical care. Its emergency care or nothing.The patient’s death had a significant impact on Cervantes, an internal medicine specialist and a professor of medicine at University of Colorado in Denver. Cervantes decided to research trends in the overuse of emergency medicine, especially by undocumented individuals. The results were shocking, if not unsurprising. Her research demonstrated that physician burnout and poor morale are expected outcomes for physicians who are required to provide substandard care to immigrants  individuals whose undocumented status is the primary barrier to receiving help. Many of these individuals are unable to afford private health insurance and are barred from accessing Medicaid or Medicare.Burnout occurs when an individual loses control of how they carry out their job, spends time working towards goals that do not resonate with personal values, and when they receive little to no professional and social support.According to Cervantes, clinicians are physically and emotionally exhausted from this type of care.You may get to know a patient and their family really well. Then the following week, you might be doing CPR on this same patient because they maybe didnt come in soon enough. Ive known people that have transitioned to different parts of the hospital because this is difficult.According to Melissa Anderson, a medical professional who was not involved in Cervantes story, agrees with findings. I practically had to take a class in immigration to understand whats going on, she said. Physicians just dont understand it, and we shouldnt have to.In an effort to provide better care to undocumented individuals, as well as reduce doctor burnout, several states have taken small steps to address this immigration and healthcare nightmare.Several states, like Arizona, New York and Washington, have modified their emergency Medicaid programs to include standard dialysis for undocumented immigrants. Ideally, we could come up with federal language and make this the national treatment strategy for undocumented immigrants, said Cervantes.	Liberal
In three midwestern states, two of which were pivotal in the 2016 presidential election, the tides have turned on President Donald Trump. Michigan and Wisconsin, which both chose Trump in 2016, think in 2020, someone else should take the reins..@NBCNews poll: Does President Trump deserve re-election? https://t.co/51PXnZYtrW pic.twitter.com/NgsUFu8sEt MSNBC (@MSNBC) July 25, 2018The third state, Minnesota chose Clinton over Trump in 2016, but by only 1.5 percent. Now, President Trump is hovering around 30 percent in all three states regarding his reelection in 2020.NBC News and Marist released the poll numbers Wednesday, with more forthcoming on Thursday. That 28-31 percent mark holds true for other national polls of voter attitudes leading into the 2018 midterm elections.And while a lot can happen between now and 2020, the midterm elections are only 104 days away. Those poll numbers concern Republicans the most and the news from these important states is not good.In congressional preference, the Democrats lead the GOP by 8 to 12 percentage points, approaching 50 percent. While preference for Republican legislators fared better than Trump, not by much.And that could be tied to the President’s approval ratings. While the first question merely asked if Trump should return to the Oval Office in 2020, the second asked people to rate his job performance.In Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, the President earned a solid F. His approval numbers match very closely to the congressional preference numbers for GOP support. However his disapproval numbers are higher than support for Democrats in Congress.Over 50 percent of voters in all three states disapprove of the job Trump is doing at the White House.Many speculate that prominent Republicans already saw the writing on the wall for 2018. Several prominent GOP members announced their retirement from politics, including Wisconsin Republican Representative and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan.As for the President, he continues to hold routine rallies for himself. The campaign almost never stopped.However the rallies are going to more remote areas now, with smaller venues and smaller crowds. The President’s last two Trump rallies were held in Fargo, North Dakota and Great Falls, Montana. Crowd size is anywhere from hundreds to thousands according to the source for the numbers.The arena for Trump’s Great Falls event has a maximum capacity of 6,600 people without the special barricades required for a presidential entourage.People reacting to the latest poll numbers were unsurprised by the outcome. Many listed reasons for the drop in Trump and GOP approval.	Liberal
In a speech to interns on Capitol Hill Wednesday morning, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI) called for an end to “tribalism and identity politics” in the government.Ryan frequently decried the partisanship that has come to characterize lawmakers since the Obama era as well as cautioning the youth against Twitter, though he didn’t mention President Donald Trump by name, despite his infamous Twitter antics. Ryan also told an anecdote of his time as an intern in D.C. and his time waiting tables, citing these experiences as ones that made him aware of the communities affected by lawmakers every day.More and more, our politics is enabling the worst in us. Weve become blind to other perspectives. Were more connected then ever, but also more disconnected and alienated. Thats what concerns me most about our civic life. pic.twitter.com/GFASa4hnw0— Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) July 25, 2018Though undoubtedly more restained and strategic than Donald Trump, with whom he shares a party, many on Twitter were quick to call out that Ryan has been complicit at best to the belligerence surging through the government of late.Dear @SpeakerRyan: I look forward to you discussing the #KeepFamiliesTogether Act, which prevents ripping kids away from their parents & adds procedures for separated families to locate each other & reunite. When will you let us vote on this bill, based on our common humanity? https://t.co/aeqAfBpYoE— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) July 25, 2018Wait until Paul Ryan finds out about the president who Paul Ryan has been enabling https://t.co/0BdY0ckCKk— Michael Cohen (@speechboy71) July 25, 2018Fixed it for you, @speakerryan pic.twitter.com/SLmXOKmkpD— Timbo Resists (@TimFaulkner_81) July 25, 2018I'm concerned about people losing their healthcare, social security, civil rights, voting rights, basic freedoms and opportunity to succeed, but you do you man.— Jake Maccoby (@jdmaccoby) July 25, 2018Mr Speaker, You helped build this. You bought it. Own it.— RobertCampbell (@campbrobert) July 25, 2018The reactions shouldn’t come as a surprise.	Liberal
Last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin gifted U.S. President Donald Trump with an Adidas soccer ball after the two leaders met in Helsinki, Finland. Trump had praised Russia’s job hosting the 2018 World Cup during a press conference following their one-on-one chat.It turns out that soccer ball, like all Adidas soccer balls, contains a microchip capable of transmitting data to nearby mobile phones, Bloomberg reported on Wednesday.Soccer ball Putin gave Trump contains chip that can transmit data to cell phones: report https://t.co/bC84kr78Sf pic.twitter.com/k387wyp1ik— The Hill (@thehill) July 25, 2018The chip inside the Telstar 18 ball “allows two devices to exchange data or trigger certain actions when physically connected to each other,” Adidas says on the company’s website.Using“Near Field Communication,” or NFC, the chip “is passive and only sends out information” which can be received by NFC-enabled devices. iPhone users need an app to access the data and Androids can connect to the Telstar’s tag through their wireless networks.Once connected, the NFC chip transmits “exclusive information about the product, Adidas football content, special competitions, and challenges,” the company says.The Telstar 18’s NFC chip cannot be rewritten or reprogrammed, Adidas states on their website. “It is not possible to delete or rewrite the encoded parameters.”In an email, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the ball was subject to “the security screening process that is done for all gifts was done for the soccer ball, but declined to comment on “further on security procedures.”No additional information is available on whether the ball presented to the president is an original or a duplicate, or whether the chip had been removed or replaced prior to being handed over to Trump. The White House has also not identified where the ball will be stored.Shortly after Putin gave the ball to Trump, rumors about it being bugged began to circulate on Twitter.	Liberal
President Donald Trump may be a year and a half into his presidency, but his business entanglements have yet to stop haunting him. In a stunning development on Wednesday,U.S. District Judge Peter J. Messitte ruled that plaintiffs suing the President for violation of the enoluments clause have standing to continue with their case.The Emoluments Clause was relatively obscure until concerns over Trump’s activities with foreign businesses revived it. The clause states:No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress,accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.However, the Trump Organization and the president’s justice department both claim that the founding fathers intended for the clause to hinder bribes, not business. Messitte appears to disagree. Should the ruling stay in place, the plaintiffs will have unfettered access to businesses under the Trump organization and possibly even to Donald Trump’s tax returns–which he still has yet to release. The plaintiffs are currently seeking interviews with foreign government officials who stayed at Trump’s D.C. hotel–which is located on the site of the Old Post Office, a federal building.The ruling rekindles the possibility that Trump’s business dealings–which, to many, gave him credibility as a presidential candidate–will end up being his downfall. It’s a possibility many Americans are welcoming.Big win! But not for Trump.First ever judicial interpretation of the emoluments clause banning profits and benefits from foreign governments.Read the Decision: Judge OKs State AGs' Emoluments Case Against Trump https://t.co/If0H4OuhE1 via @TheNLJ— Richard W. Painter (@RWPUSA) July 25, 2018I'm still on the subway back from The Daily News press conference so haven't read the full opinion denying Trump's Motion to Dismiss in the Emoluments lawsuit, but after 20 months of pushing and litigating Trump's illegal taking foreign money, I am elated. Law will prevail.— Zephyr Teachout (@ZephyrTeachout) July 25, 2018This opinion in the Emoluments Clause case is a watershed moment. From the moment Trump took office he was in violation of the Constitution, and while DC & MD are leading the way, NY should be part of this fight. It's where most of his businesses are. When I am AG, we will be.— Zephyr Teachout (@ZephyrTeachout) July 25, 2018This is the nightmare  or one of them  that Trump has long feared, namely litigation in which his business operations, perhaps even his tax returns, are laid bare. https://t.co/TbsANaKz49— Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) July 25, 2018The case presided over by Judge Messitte is far from the only lawsuit Trump is fighting.	Liberal
Wednesday, July 25, 2018, Daniel W. Drezner posted this on Twitter.Ill believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/Axtz119wgw pic.twitter.com/EvaHZL5w41 Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) July 25, 2018Embarking on a seemingly never-ending quest over a year ago on April 25, 2017, Dan Drezner, a professor at the Fletcher Graduate School of international affairs posted an excerpt from an article fromThe Washington Post on Twitter. He captioned the share:I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler.”The Washington Postarticle, titled “‘Everyone tunes in: Inside Trumps obsession with cable TV,” included behind the scenes anecdotes from the Trump staff. The highlighted quote involved a member of the President’s staff speaking of the Commander-in-Chief in terms most often associated with a small child.In the article, the unnamed adviser states:Once he goes upstairs, theres no managing him.”I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/yAZg1uZnpy pic.twitter.com/o8UltcVhda Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) April 25, 2017Since that day in April, Drezner repeated his assertion the next time the Trump administration provided a worthy example of their view of the President’s maturity. Which was two days later.I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/AjyZaPnVqT pic.twitter.com/jlbLFFxkFV Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) April 27, 2017Since then, many more have followed.Ill believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when GOP lawmakers stop talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/ECrbLFL6ha pic.twitter.com/Lnwg9T3WH3 Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) July 23, 2018Each time Drezner includes a variation of the same caption from his original Trump assessment:I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when ____ stops talking about him like a toddler. In the example above, it was GOP lawmakers.While there has not been a post every day, there is one at least once a week. And some days offer a wealth of examples. For instance, August 4, 2017 offered three examples.I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/9aIXMOfg6O pic.twitter.com/fLLIRL0SWA Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 4, 2017I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/bmkPGKXyYP pic.twitter.com/1lF6DFbuC9 Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 4, 2017I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/3vWxYXuvG6 pic.twitter.com/OpYfbln2pc Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 4, 2017Drezner pulls his quotes from a variety of print media. The only common denominator is quotes must come from the President’s own closest allies in the White House, his own staff…I’ll believe that Trump is growing into the presidency when his staff stops talking about him like a toddler. https://t.co/Pur7LBjIQT pic.twitter.com/mxjvOpMuTA Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) August 17, 2017…or due to pressing examples…	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s approval rating has dipped to 38 percent after his meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin last week and, more specifically, after he sided with Putin over the assessment from U.S. intelligence agencies that Russian operatives had launched cyberattacks against the United States in its attempt to subvert the 2016 presidential election and undermine American democracy.According to the latest Quinnipiac University poll, 38 percent of Americans believe the president is faring well in office compared to 58 percent who believe he is not. That’s a stark differential froma negative 43 – 52 percent rating in a June 20 Quinnipiac poll after Trump’s summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.President Trump's job approval rating is 38% in the new Quinnipiac poll.82% among Republicans, 7% among Democrats, 32% among independents. pic.twitter.com/PR8R7aWPZJ— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) July 24, 2018Quinnipiac observes:The president’s only clear support among listed groups is from Republicans, who approve 82 – 15 percent, and white evangelical Christians, who approve 71 – 26 percent. White voters with no college degree are split 49 – 47 percent and white men are divided as 49 percent approve and 47 percent disapprove.Voters disapprove 58 – 38 percent of the way Trump is handling foreign policy and say 51 – 35 percent that he has weakened the U.S. position as leader of the free world.Public opinion on the special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation has also caused the president’s approval rating to sour considerably:Trump did not collude with the Russian government to influence the 2016 presidential election, American voters say 48 – 39 percent. But voters are divided on whether the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians, as 46 percent say it did and 44 percent say it did not.Special Counsel Robert Mueller is conducting a fair investigation into possible collusion, voters say 55 – 31 percent.This investigation is “legitimate,” 54 percent of voters say, while 40 percent say it is a “witch hunt.”A total of 63 percent of voters are “very concerned” or “somewhat concerned” that the Russian government may try to interfere in the 2018 elections, as 36 percent are “not so concerned” or “not concerned at all.”That said, 51 percent of American voters say“that the Russian government has compromising information about President Trump,” compared to 35 percent who don’t believe the Russian government has any compromising information about the president at all.New Quinnipiac poll: American voters believe 51  35 percent that the Russian government has compromising information about President Trump.— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) July 24, 2018The majority of Republicans (70 percent) say they don’t believe there is compromising information and Republicans, Quinnipiac observes, are “the only listed party, gender, education, age or racial group which does not believe it.”Quinnipiac poll:70% of Republicans say they don't believe the Russians have compromising information on Trump.Trump's approval rating among Republicans is 82%.— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) July 24, 2018Two other groupswhite voters with no college degree and white menare divided, with 44 percent of the former group saying they believe the Russians have something on the president and 43 percent saying they don’t believe the Russians have anything; 42 percent of the latter group say they believe the Russians have compromising information compared to 43 percent who say they don’t.It gets worse for the president from there. Matt McDermott, a pollster and director for Whitman Insight Strategies, notes that Quinnipiac found that 41 percent of voters believe that the Senate should not confirm Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court, and that 68 percent of voters do not wantRoe v. Wadethe landmark Supreme Court ruling seen as a victory for women’s abortion rightsoverturned.Wow, the latest Quinnipiac poll finds that a plurality of voters (41%) believe that the Senate should reject Brett Kavanaugh's nomination to the Supreme Court. The same poll finds that 66% of voters do not want Roe overturned.— Matt McDermott (@mattmfm) July 25, 2018By contrast, the president has often claimed that a majority of voters approve of his Supreme Court pick, but othershave expressed outrage at the notion that a president under federal investigation could nominate someone with the potential to sway the courts opinion in the event of an indictment.To that end, its obvious why the president ultimately picked Kavanaugh, who is perhaps best known for the leading role he played indrafting the Starr report, which advocated for the impeachment of President Bill Clinton and whoseviews about when to impeach a president are likely to become contentious subjects during his Senate confirmation hearing.Quinnipiac also has Democrats up 12 points on the generic ballot, at 51 percent, though many within the party are urging their constituents not to become complacent and vote in November’s midterm elections regardless.Quinnipiac has Democrats up 12 on the the generic ballot  51-39— Jake Sherman (@JakeSherman) July 25, 2018In case there are any reservations about these poll results, it’s worth noting that Quinnipiac conducted its own pollingafter an NBC/WSJ poll which found Trump’s approval rating trending upward after his performance in Helsinki.Just to be clear: The NBC/WSJ poll was conducted half before/during Helsinki, half afterward. All of Quinnipiac was conducted afterward https://t.co/dKFBjGsSMh— Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) July 24, 2018Quinnipiac University surveyed 1,177 voters nationwide, with a margin of error of +/- 3.5 percentage points, including design effect, between July 18 and July 23. Live interviewers called landlines and cell phones.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is reportedly considering slapping 25 percent tariffs on $200 billion worth of imported foreign cars by the end of the year, The Washington Post reported on Wednesday, according to sources close to the administration.Trump pushes 25 percent auto tariff as top advisers scramble to stop him https://t.co/r9zgt8jcOj— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) July 25, 2018Last month, the president threatened to impose a 20 percent tariff on imported automobiles manufactured in the European Union, which Trump has accused of cheating the United States and treating our country like a “piggy bank.”“Based on the Tariffs and Trade Barriers long placed on the U.S. and it great companies and workers by the European Union,” Trump said in a tweet in June, “if these Tariffs and Barriers are not soon broken down and removed, we will be placing a 20% Tariff on all of their cars coming into the U.S. Build them here!”Obama saved the domestic industry, Trump wants to kill it.— Addie May (@everlovinaddie) July 25, 2018Stocks for European automakers Daimler, Volkswagen, and BMW plunged in the wake of the president’s threat. Many of these cars sold in the United States, along with automobiles Japanese companiesHonda, Nissan, Toyota, and Subaru, are manufactured in the United States and employ tens of thousands of American workers.The United States imported $192 billion worth of foreign-built cars in 2017, which are subject to a 2.5 percent tariff. Foreign-made SUVs and light trucks already come with a 25 percent tariff.All cars contain parts from all over the world, from steel to electronics to tires— Addie May (@everlovinaddie) July 25, 2018The Post reported on Wednesday that Commerce Department officials are seeking ways to “address Trumps insistence that cheap foreign cars are flooding the U.S. market,” although advisors familiar with internal discussions expect Trump to make good on his threat.President Garbage clearly has an understanding of the auto industry that hasn't existed since the 70s. I assume that's due to the encroaching dementia and his complete lack of intelligence.— Northern Point (@NorthernPoint) July 25, 2018Trump is scheduled to meet withEuropean Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on Wednesday, where the two are expected to discuss the future of U.S.-E.U. trade. The Post said Juncker will lay out two alternative options for the president to consider.The first would be to lower tariffs on all automobile-exporting nations and the second would be a proposal to “eliminate tariffs on industrial products, including cars,” that are traded between the U.S. and the E.U.Trump made a similar proposal on Tuesday via Twitter.The European Union is coming to Washington tomorrow to negotiate a deal on Trade. I have an idea for them. Both the U.S. and the E.U. drop all Tariffs, Barriers and Subsidies! That would finally be called Free Market and Fair Trade! Hope they do it, we are ready – but they wont!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 25, 2018On Wednesday morning, the president doubled-down on his insistence that steep tariffs are the answer to the “Lost $817 Billion on Trade last year.”Every time I see a weak politician asking to stop Trade talks or the use of Tariffs to counter unfair Tariffs, I wonder, what can they be thinking? Are we just going to continue and let our farmers and country get ripped off?  Lost $817 Billion on Trade last year. No weakness!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 25, 2018But administration officials are not sold on the idea of additional taxes being levied on imported goods.“There is not a lot of support for the auto tariffs internally,” one senior administration official said. “There are many people who dont want to see it go through.”Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN) is expected to introduce legislation to make it harder for Trump to levy tariffs on imported cars as the president meets with Juncker.German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country Trump has said “owes” him money and with whom Trump sparred over Trade at last month’s G7 summit, said on Friday she is preparing for the worst.Juncker“will be making suggestions there about how we can enter into a discussion process to avoid this,” Merkel said at her annual summer news conference. Although she expects Juncker to “present possibilities for discussion” to the president, Merkel added: “Im not filling myself with expectations or predictions.”European and American automakers have also voiced their opposition to additional tariffs on imported cars.	Liberal
President Donald Trump continues to vacillate between denying any Russian election interference in 2016 and acknowledging it; discrediting U.S. intelligence agencies by refuting their evidence of continued Russian interference then stating Russia poses a legitimate threat in 2018.Tuesday morning, Russia returned to being a threat. But, the President claimed, only to him.The President took to Twitter Tuesday morning to reiterate his claim that no President ever has been tougher on Russia. It is a claim he initially made during one of the times he denied any continued Russian interference.Im very concerned that Russia will be fighting very hard to have an impact on the upcoming Election. Based on the fact that no President has been tougher on Russia than me, they will be pushing very hard for the Democrats. They definitely dont want Trump!”Im very concerned that Russia will be fighting very hard to have an impact on the upcoming Election. Based on the fact that no President has been tougher on Russia than me, they will be pushing very hard for the Democrats. They definitely dont want Trump! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 24, 2018But journalist Sarah Kendzior, anexpert on Russian authoritarian states, refutes the President’s claim. She offers a very different scenario from the one posited by Trump.In response to a potential 2018 midterms scenario from Jelani Cobb, Kendzior stated,Scenario from @jelani9 is likely. Other possibilities:2) Trump/Kremlin use pretense of “interference” to deem elections won by Dems illegitimate. (This may be one reason why they’re not addressing cybersecurity.)3) GOP losers simply refuse to concede, Roy Moore-style (1/2) https://t.co/mLFZXc4fYl Sarah Kendzior (@sarahkendzior) July 19, 2018Then in an almost exact opposite view from the President, Kendzior stated why Russia reached out to the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election and why they won’t be extending a helping hand to Democrats.“Russia interfered in the 2016 election to get Trump in power for concrete reasons: remove sanctions on Russia, weaken NATO, etc.”They are not going to interfere to elect Dems in 2018 because Dems want sanctions, NATO, and an investigation of Putin and Russian oligarchs.”Russia interfered in the 2016 election to get Trump in power for concrete reasons: remove sanctions on Russia, weaken NATO, etc.They are not going to interfere to elect Dems in 2018 because Dems want sanctions, NATO, and an investigation of Putin and Russian oligarchs. Sarah Kendzior (@sarahkendzior) July 24, 2018Kendzior speaks Russian and has a Masters degree in Eurasian Studies and a PhD in anthropology with her focus on former Soviet Union authoritarian states. Her dissertation covered how the the Uzbekistan dictatorship employed the internet to undermine public trust in and manipulate the media.In 2016, Kendzior began pointing to parallels between the Uzbekistan strategy she studied extensively and then candidate Trump’s Russian business entanglements, xenophobic and racist rhetoric, undermining of trust in mainstream media and admiration for Putin. This was before the world knew for certain that Russia actively engaged the Trump Campaign and family in a Trump Tower meeting.Regarding Trump’s repeated claims of no President being tougher on Russia, history refutes that claim as well.	Liberal
On Tuesday, a secret audio recording was released of candidate Donald Trump speaking with his former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, about payments to Playboy model Karen McDougal, with whom Trump allegedly had an affair. The hush money discussion took place just weeks before the 2016 election.Now, Cohen’s attorney, Lanny Davis, has told Axios there’s “more to come” and that the public will soon know more “about what Michael Cohen saw and heard.”Lanny Davis: "Michael Cohen has made a turn. This is on the record." https://t.co/Fh0CyLfLyV— Justin Miller (@justinjm1) July 25, 2018“Michael Cohen has made a turn,” Davis told Axios’s Justin Miller. “This is on the record  Michael and I talked about it.”He added:Michael is going to tell the truthto the powers that be, and let the chips fall where they may.In the tape, which was obtained by CNN, Cohen can be heard telling Trump about a shell company he would have to set up in order to buy the rights to McDougal’s story from American Media, which owns the National Enquirer.“I need to open up a company for the transfer of all of that info regarding our friend David,” Cohen told Trump before mentioning “financing.”“What financing?” Trump replied.“We’ll have to pay,” Cohen said. Trump can then be heard saying “pay with cash,” though it’s unclear whether Trump meant to use cash or not pay. Cohen said, “no, no” before the recording cuts off.Davis told Axios there are more tapes of Cohen and Trump and that Tuesday’s release is a signal from Cohen: “I am no longer the previous Michael Cohen that you knew  taking a bullet for Donald Trump, saying anything to defend him, being a good soldier. … That is over.”“Im not saying there are more tapes as telling as [this] one,” Davis teased,“But there are more tapes. … There is more to come.”Needless to say, all this has made the president very nervous.“What kind of a lawyer would tape a client?” Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. “So sad!”What kind of a lawyer would tape a client? So sad! Is this a first, never heard of it before? Why was the tape so abruptly terminated (cut) while I was presumably saying positive things? I hear there are other clients and many reporters that are taped – can this be so? Too bad!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 25, 2018Twitter had some answers for the president, namely that a “mob lawyer” is exactly the type who would secretly record privileged conversations with their client.What kind of lawyer would tape a client? A **MOB** lawyer, who was your personal attorney, that's who.#CohenTapeshttps://t.co/4TeMokGr6Z— Dr. Dena Grayson (@DrDenaGrayson) July 25, 2018I thought you hired the BEST PEOPLEGuess that was another lie!— Ryan Hill (@RyanHillMI) July 25, 2018The kind of lawyer you hired #MoronInChief— Lauren McDowell (@macsloth) July 25, 2018Others said the Cohen recordings show that even those closest to Trump don’t trust him.What sort of client is so untrustworthy that his lawyer feels need to tape him ??— colin morley (@morley_colin) July 25, 2018The kind of lawyer who knows he's dealing with someone with extremely small hands.— Dave #ALLCAPS (@baltimoredavey) July 25, 2018You know what kind of clients get recorded? The kind that are pathological liars who say something one minute and deny saying it the next.— Comrade Pumpkinhead (@returnofbex) July 25, 2018Cohen taped you because he knew that you were a criminal— Andrew U (@AndrewU123) July 25, 2018Maybe his client has a history of lying and manipulating so he wanted proof of what was actually said?— Jon Tronc (@jotro72) July 25, 2018A lawyer that has you for client. That was like shooting fish in a barrel. Next question, please.— Renee Zuckerbrot (@RZAgent) July 25, 2018Trump’s lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, responded on Fox News Tuesday night, saying:“There’s no indication of any crime being committed on this tape.” He added:“Theres no way the president is going to be talking about setting up a corporation and using cash unless youre a complete idiot and the presidents not an idiot.”	Liberal
Sean Spicer, the former White House press secretary, has been busy as of late. With the release of his book,The Briefing, he’s embarked on a tour that’s seen him jump from media outlets to comedy shows in what at least one outlet called “an effort at image rehabilitation.”Spicer, in contrast to many previous members of President Donald Trump’s administration, has, at times, apologized for the outright lies he told on camera during daily press briefings and for his combativeinfamously parodiedbehavior with members of the media. The press has often tolerated these appearances, seemed deferential, and even congratulated Spicer for appearing to accept some degree of responsibility for stoking the flames of a culture that has grown nearly numb to the president’s daily cries of “fake news!” at news outlets that print anything critical of him or his administration.And Spicer, for all his apologies and justifications, did not expect to be challenged so mightily by BBC journalist Emily Maitlis during an interview for which he’d made a video appearance. Maitlis excoriated Spicer for the starring role he’s played in the denigration of civil discourse.“You joked about it when you presented the Emmy awards, but it wasn’t a joke,” Maitlis said, referring to Spicer’s defense of Trump’s claims that the crowds at his inauguration were the largest of any inauguration in history. “It was the start of the most corrosive culture. You played with the truth, you led us down a dangerous path; you have corrupted discourse for the entire world by going along with these lies.”BBC interviewer to Sean Spicer: "You have corrupted discourse for the entire world by going along with these lies" pic.twitter.com/HsvNLajwQu— Robert Maguire (@RobertMaguire_) July 24, 2018“With all dueI’m sorry, Emily, you act as though everything began and ended with that,” Spicer retorted. “You’re taking no accountability for the many false narratives and false stories that the media perpetrated”“He [Donald Trump] shouts ‘fake news’ when he doesn’t like something,” Maitlis said, cutting him off.“I can’t sit hereI-I wrote a book that I think is fairly strong representation of what happened in the campaign, and the transition in the White House,” Spicer said. “I take responsibility for where I think I’ve fallen short or where I could have done better. But for you to lay that kind of claim and make everything sound like it started and ended with Donald Trump is just absolutely ridiculous.”“I just-I guess my question,” Maitlis said, “is you were his press secretary and I know from what I’ve read that you care about the freedoms and institutions and the democracy”“I do!” Spicer rebutted.“on which your country was built, and this is the office of the president spouting lies or half-truths or knocking down real truth and you were his agent for those months.”“My job, as I lay out in the book, was to be the president’s spokesperson and communicate his thoughts and his ideas when he wasn’t able to do it or wasn’t present,” Spicer said. “That’s my job. My job wasn’t to interpret for him. I gave him the best advice and counsel I could in private. I shared with him what I thought strategy would be. But at the end of the day, he is the president of the United States, and it was his thoughts and his ideas”“Okay.”“and his feelings that it was my job to communicate. Whether you like them or not, those were his thoughts and his feelings.”“Let me talk about his feelings a little bit,” Maitlis responded, “because you describe very well the day that theAccess Hollywoodstory broke and the Republican candidate on that tape was talking about grabbing women by the pussy. Did that tell you anything about your man that you didn’t previously know?”There was a beat when Spicer was silent.Then: “Well, I think we’ve all said things in privatewhich that wasthat are inappropriate or incredible,” he began.“Have you said things like that?” Maitlis asked.Spicer stumbled for a second before saying, “I don’t know that I would want every single thing that I’ve ever said in private to be made public, no. I’ve probably said things that I regret, absolutely.”Many praised Maitlis for her conduct and criticized Spicer for failing to atone for his errors.Attention @CNN @MSNBC This is how to conduct an interview— Spike Feresten (@spikeferesten) July 24, 2018Kudos to her.Fantastic job.Spicer is absolutely drowning.— Ronald A. Ortman (@raortman) July 24, 2018https://twitter.com/LouAnnH73071426/status/1021960071352336384I love when he pretends like the Access Hollywood tape was some affront to Donald Trump's privacy (the irony given the hacked emails) – as if it was Trump's diary as opposed to a conversation on an Access Hollywood bus w/ people filming.  Sean sucks. May he go down in infamy.— UnChatUnChat (@CriUnChatUnChat) July 25, 2018If only we can have journalist like her in the US. Someone that is not afraid to call out blatant lies straight to the person face.— Nana_48 (@msleen1970) July 25, 2018I'm not a fan of seeing these people get any attention. But this is everything. Shame them in every way and platform you can.— EHM  (@ekcj1234) July 25, 2018Spicer’s tenure began when he lied about the size of the crowd at President Trump’s inauguration, and Maitlis called him out on that before the segment of the interview seen above.	Liberal
President Donald Trump unleashed a new attack on the free press at the Veterans of Foreign Wars National Convention in Missouri, urging supporters to ignore what the media says and that voter should “just stick with us.”Trump in Missouri: "It's all working out. Just remember: What you're seeing and what you're reading is not what's happening." (via ABC) pic.twitter.com/pzeuyS0gPa— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 24, 2018In his speech, the president said the country is doing “better than it’s everdone before, economically,” before launching into a tantrum in which he said what the press reports “is not what’s happening.”But it’s all working out. Just remember: What you’re seeing and what you’re reading is not what’s happening.“Dont believe the crap you see from these people, the fake news, Trump added. His comments were followed by laughter and applause from the audience.Trump: "What you're seeing and what you're reading is not what's happening" https://t.co/D9fUwYKu0L pic.twitter.com/kppV9CaP3q— The Hill (@thehill) July 24, 2018Twitter said Trump is living in his own universe.He's living in his own fantasy world! pic.twitter.com/BQCzw4h0CH— Marshea (Mar-shay) (@Marshea85) July 24, 2018So…. Trump is living in an alternative reality. Is he experiencing psychosis and a lack of reality testing?— Brother Mark (@ProgressWeekly) July 24, 2018The continued gaslighting of Trump’s base was apparent to many on social media, who were disturbed by the president encouraging his supporters to reject evidence in favor of what he tells them."Just remember: what youre seeing and what you're reading is not whats happening."Gaslighting is a form of torture that makes the victim doubt their perception of reality.Gaslighting engages the victim as a self-torturer on the perpetrators behalf.pic.twitter.com/9C3YAB5LR4— Leah McElrath (@leahmcelrath) July 24, 2018Otherwise, dont believe what your eyes and ears are telling you. Just believe what Trump says is true. This nothing but autocracy in its highest form.— Sherrie Kaw (@89wunderlust) July 24, 2018Just like religion.  Don't believe what you see and hear and experience.  Have faith in what you can't see, hear, or experience.— Jane (@MonarchNursery) July 24, 2018So basically he's The Wizard of Oz and telling his base "Don't pay attention to the man behind the iron curtain…"— Snarky Mcsnarkeson (@Annjej) July 24, 2018And that, my friends is what "gaslighting" is. Resign already.— Nicola Cameron  (@YesItsNicolaC) July 24, 2018The party told you to reject the evidence of your eyes and ears. It was their final, most essential command.— Suki van Dijk (@sukihd) July 24, 2018Dont trust your eyes or your ears.  Only me, your Glorious Beloved Leader.— Forrest Brakeman (@forrestbrakeman) July 24, 2018Just like in a cult.Local area president does simultaneous David Koresh and Jim Jones impressions— Ryan Storey (@Storey33) July 24, 2018 The president had just finished sharing his opinion that the strong economy means “this is the time” for tariffs.	Liberal
Just one day after receiving heavy criticism for manufacturing her clothing, footwear and other branded products in China, First Daughter Ivanka Trump announced she is shutting down her clothing line.While the company made a reported $47.3 million in clothing sales in 2016, company sources said only 18 people in the United States are affected by the shutdown.The brand floundered after the election, whereas it initially saw a surge in sales due to frequent free media exposure. Trump campaigned for her father wearing and bringing attention to Ivanka Trump branded products during high-profile speeches and interviews.After the election, her decision to retain ownership of the brand while working in the White House raised further ethics issues. Watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) charged the entire first family with profiting from the presidency, but especially the First Daughter for promoting her apparel in her official capacity as a White House staffer.But according to many analysts, the ethics violations were not the death knell for the now struggling company.After the Access Hollywood tape of then candidate Trump became public knowledge, activists targeted all Trump products.In the now infamous tape, Trump Sr. talks about grabbing and kissing women without asking permission and uttered the line “grab ’em by the pussy.”But as the Presidential candidate’s comments described repeated sexual assaults on women, women organized much of the boycotts. Thus the #GrabYourWallet hashtag and movement emerged.According to their website information, “#GrabYourWallet movement began in the wake of the release of the Access Hollywood tape when two women simultaneously realized they could no longer in good conscience do business with companies doing business with the Trump family. Never having met, Shannon Coulter and Sue Atencio joined forces on October 11, 2016 and announced on Twitter they’d be boycotting any retailer that carried Trump products.”Today, Coulter cited victory on Twitter in the wake of the Ivanka Trump clothing announcement. In a series of tweets, Coulter outlined the progress made since 2016.Yes, it’s true: Ivanka Trump is shuttering her fashion line. Things may be close at the polls. They are not at the cash register. The big hearted, fair minded people hold the majority of the consumer power and we vote every single day. #GrabYourWallet https://t.co/W4v7kzjhiP pic.twitter.com/5w03VnHLZL Shannon Coulter (@shannoncoulter) July 24, 2018From the Trump administrations first attempts at the Muslim ban to its infamous both sides comments about Charlottesville, what weve seen repeatedly is that its really when the Trump administration shows its racism and xenophobia that retailers come under the most pressure. Shannon Coulter (@shannoncoulter) July 24, 2018It comes as no surprise that Ivanka Trump’s brand is shuttering her brand in the wake of international attention on the administration of which she is a prominent part forcibly separating thousands of children from their parents. Shannon Coulter (@shannoncoulter) July 24, 2018Coulter concluded her comments by stating, “This is people power at work. This is you using your voices and your hard earned money to push back on extremism.”This is you saying no to the hate that the Trump administration embodies. You are #GrabYourWallet and this is your win.”This is people power at work. This is you using your voices and your hard earned money to push back on extremism. This is you saying no to the hate that the Trump administration embodies. You are #GrabYourWallet and this is your win. Shannon Coulter (@shannoncoulter) July 24, 2018Then she added one last little tweet.Mood. pic.twitter.com/QzGS1PC4oO Shannon Coulter (@shannoncoulter) July 24, 2018People online celebrated with Coulter through Twitter comments of their own.	Liberal
A Republican Senator is taking a stand against President Donald Trump’s plan to bail out farmers who have been adversely affected by retaliatory tariffs placed on American exports, which were imposed on the United States in response to Trump’s tariffs on foreign-made goods.Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE) issued a statement on Tuesday panning Trump’s proposal to use taxpayer dollars to rescue the agriculture industry, which has been suffering losses thanks to Trump’s reckless trade policies.Ben Sasse responds to White House plan to bail out agriculture industry amid Trumps various trade wars pic.twitter.com/B59olVXFOB— Haley Byrd (@byrdinator) July 24, 2018Sasse said Trump’s “trade war” is “cutting the legs out from under farmers,” and that Trump’s desire to “spend $12 billion on gold crutches” is an affront to farmers who “don’t want to be paid to lose.”Sasse, a longtime proponent of free trade and whose home state of Nebraska supplies much of the world’s corn, soybeans, and wheat, added:“This administration’s tariffs and bailouts aren’t going to make America great again, they’re just going to make it 1929 again.”Two other Republican Senators – Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin – joined Sasse in his opposition to what they see as unnecessary government intervention in a deliberately manufactured economic crisis.Paul called the administration’s move “welfare for farmers” and Johnson said Trump’s policies are creating a “Soviet-style economy.”At least 3 Repubs are against $12B farming aid.Rand Paul: It's "welfare for farmers." Ben Sasse: "Bailouts arent going to make America great again, theyre just going to make it 1929 again." Ron Johnson: "This is becoming more and more like a Soviet-type of economy here"— Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) July 24, 2018Twitter shared its thoughts as well. Some praised Sasse for standing up to Trump on what is widely viewed as economically risky approaches to global trade.Any economist would tell you he is accurate.  Its not rocket science a trade war hurts everyone involved and most companies are global today, more so then in the past, so it is even worse.— delaware seminole (@delawarenole) July 24, 2018A good response— Chris Nagel (@ChrisNagel_SP) July 24, 2018Thats fair, but I give @BenSasse a lot of credit. He gets hit hard from the Trumpkins.— Chris Nagel (@ChrisNagel_SP) July 24, 2018But not everyone agreed. Some see Sasse’s comments as nothing more than posturing, and they fear he will continue to vote for Trump’s policies despite publicly opposing them.I PROMISE YOU he'll vote in favor of it.— Bob Loblaw (@mrgregshields) July 24, 2018Sasse is all hat and no cattle…— Tom V (@vrot01) July 24, 2018If only @BenSasse @JeffFlake and @SenBobCorker could team up with like-minded Dems to do something.  Something other than issuing statements of concern that are as ephemeral as a fart in the wind.— Jeffrey Carlson (@Carlsonjok) July 24, 2018But what actions? The legislators actually have power to stop this nonsense— tay (@stetayen) July 24, 2018The bailout was announced Tuesday afternoon by Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue.	Liberal
On Monday, the Trump administration announced possibly revoking security clearances for six former government employees or officials, some of whom worked for Trump. The six originally worked for President George H. W. Bush, President Bill Clinton, President George W. Bush before eventually working for President Barack Obama.Some are lifelong Republicans, some Democrats. None are currently implicated in ongoing investigations involving breaches of national security either, unlike some advisers still employed by the federal government.So what do these six individuals all private citizens now have in common that warrants threats of revoking their security clearances?All have been critical of President Donald Trump in the media or on Twitter. Which makes Trump’s threat of revoking their clearances appear purely retaliatory; targeting his critics for the offense of being, well… critical.Given the chance to gauge the reaction to this announcement with the 3rd most powerful man in Washington based on order of succession to the presidency reporters took it.Asked what he thought of Trump’s threat against private citizens, Republican Speaker of the House Paul Ryan’s response?I think he’s trolling people, honestly.”“I think he’s trolling people, honestly,” Speaker Paul Ryan says when asked about Pres. Trump threatening to revoke security clearances from several former Obama officials.“I think some of these people have already lost their clearances,” Ryan adds https://t.co/rGQVty4dHY pic.twitter.com/0tvPusqzDV ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 24, 2018In the video of the exchange, the reporter asks if it is a dangerous road to go down, using the powers of the presidency to target private citizens who criticize the President.Ryan’s casual response, which he makes twice, raises concerns about his own fitness to provide a key component to the United States federal system of checks and balances. The three branches executive, legislative and judicial function together to keep one branch from gaining too much power.Or at least according to the U.S. Constitutional framework.This is not the first time Speaker Ryan received condemnation for enabling Trump or being complicit.Republican leadership took heavy criticism in the lead up and wake of Trump’s closed door private meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland, and in failing to demand accountability or transparency after the President’s disastrous Helsinki news conference remarks.The hashtags #TreasonSummit, #ComplicitInTreason and #ComplicitGOP trended heavily on social media and were often aimed at Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.However, unlike McConnell who seeks reelection in November, Speaker Ryan is a lame duck. But what exactly does that mean?	Liberal
Four members of the Homeland Security Advisory Committeeresigned their posts last week in protest of President Donald Trump’s policy of separating migrant children from their parents at the U.S.-Mexican border.Huge respect for the up-standers who resigned from the DHS advisory council: Richard DanzigElizabeth HoltzmanDavid MartinMatthew OlsenThese are serious, sober, security-minded people. And theirs is the kind of moral clarity we need right now. https://t.co/2PQlFm1Gas— Elisa Massimino (@ecmassimino) July 18, 2018The group of four, all of whom were appointed by former President Barack Obama, claimed they were not consulted over what they called the “morally repugnant” practice of immigrant family separation in a powerful letter of dissent written to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen.Were we consulted, we would have observed that routinely taking children from migrant parents was morally repugnant, counter-productive and ill-considered, the group wrote. We cannot tolerate association with the immigration policies of this administration, nor the illusion that we are consulted on these matters.Former Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman (D-NY), one of the four resignees, followed up with a letter of her own to Nielsen, in which she called for the secretary to resign.Although it is I resigning in protest against these policies, it is you who should be tendering your resignation instead.Elizabeth Holtzman is still a bad ass… https://t.co/145wxCsi3Z— Joan Walsh (@joanwalsh) July 24, 2018Holtzman coauthored the Refugee Act of 1980, which she said was violated by Trump’s decision to rip families apart, and that the law was put in place to avoid a repeat of the United States’ refusal to accept refugees fleeing the Nazis during World War II. Holtzman worked to track down and prosecute escaped Nazis in the United States in the 1970s.Holtzman was a literal Nazi hunter. Her words are damning.Former congresswoman who expelled Nazis quits Homeland Security advisory council in protest of U.S. govs policy of separating children from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border. Elizabeth Holtzman also gave testimony to USC Shoah Foundation.https://t.co/AAIHv06J7w— USC Shoah Foundation (@USCShoahFdn) July 20, 2018“There was a time that the US welcomed refugees, she wrote. “We readily accepted and absorbed more than 600,000 refugees from Cuba, 750,000 refugees from Vietnam, and more than 100,000 Jews from the Soviet Union.  The thought that the US government is afraid today of 2,000 children and their parents is both laughable and appalling.”Holtzman blasted the Trump administration’s “war on refugees and immigrants,” which the former New York City Comptroller said are “ethnically and religiously motivated” and “malign and self-destructive policies.”“This is child kidnapping, plain and simple,” Holtzman said.Seizing children from their parents in violation of the constitutional rights of both is bad enough (mentally harmful to the children and infinitely painful to both the parents and children), but doing so without creating proper records to enable family reunification shows utter depravity on the part of the government officials involved.Twitter lauded Holtzman’s demand for Nielsen to step down.Although it is I resigning in protest against these policies, it is you who should be tendering your resignation insteadElizabeth HoltzmanCo-Author Refugee Act of 1981Read Elizabeth Holtzmans powerful resignation letter from the Homeland Security Advisory Committee  pic.twitter.com/MRYFgSoc6W— Lou Paskalis (@LouPas) July 19, 2018if only more people associated w this administration had the guts of Elizabeth Holtzman— Hope Sherman (@hope_sherman) July 24, 2018Love it! "It is you who should be resigning" Boom!!— Mz Overton-Resist (@IAmHollowpainyo) July 24, 2018Democracy takes working at it. Its not for cowards. God bless this woman and everyone else who is standing up for the most vulnerable among us. We are all human beings. Bravo Elizabeth Holtzman — Debra Johnston (@LA_Debra) July 24, 2018Some think Holtzman’s note to Nielsen should be “copied and pasted on the resignation letter of every Trump administration official.”	Liberal
Two Republican members of Congress have called out President Donald Trump after he took to Twitter with a bizarre claim about tariffs and how they operate.“Tariffs are the greatest!” the president claimed, before saying that leveling tariffs are a “simple” repercussion of negotiating trade deals that would impact the United States “unfairly.”Tariffs are the greatest! Either a country which has treated the United States unfairly on Trade negotiates a fair deal, or it gets hit with Tariffs. Its as simple as that – and everybodys talking! Remember, we are the piggy bank thats being robbed. All will be Great!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 24, 2018But the president’s understanding of economics is lacking, as Representarive Justin Amash (R-MI) points out.“Umm… no. Tariffs are taxes. American consumers are the ones who get hit with U.S.-imposed tariffs,” Amash wrote. He added that how other countries approach economics “does not justify our own economic incompetence.”Ummno. Tariffs are taxes. And American consumers are the ones who get hit with U.S.-imposed tariffs. The fact that other countries are bad at economicsand harm their own people with tariffs and other protectionist schemesdoes not justify our own economic incompetence. https://t.co/Ev5uzBRGFT— Justin Amash (@justinamash) July 24, 2018House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) also rebuffed the president’s claim and reiterated Amash’s remarks, saying, “I’ve made it pretty clear I don’t think tariffs are the right answer. I don’t support tariffs. I think tariffs are taxes, and I think there are better tools that we can use.”Speaker Ryan responds to Pres. Trump's tweet that "tariffs are the greatest!""I've made it pretty clear I don't think tariffs are the right answer. I don't support tariffs. I think tariffs are taxes, and I think there are better tools that we can use" https://t.co/k8w3BJSi7d pic.twitter.com/RusnLxP0WN— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 24, 2018Both Amash and Ryan are correct: Tariffs are taxes on imports or exports between sovereign states. In the United States,many tariffs are paid at the time of entry into the country via a U.S. customs broker or agent, and that doesn’t necessarily account for duties and fees that may apply to the import.Trump’s tweet comesas the U.S. and China spar tensely after Trump announced an additional $200 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods, in an attempt to get businesses to use less Chinese-produced goods and opt for goods made in the U.S. or by allies with whom the country has less precarious trade relationships.These tariffs don’t benefit the U.S. or, as Trump puts it, “the piggy bank that’s being robbed.” The tariffs actually result in production cost increases for businesses thatuse imported Chinese products. These increases happen because businesses either must use more expensive domestic parts or pay more for the finished products.Trump’s tariffs alsofocus on intermediary goods, or parts, which many small-to-medium-sized U.S. businesses use to make finished products. Consequently, the increased cost of parts place businesses into positions where they must either raise prices on their prices and pass the cost on to the consumer, reduce their workforce, or shutter U.S. operations and move overseas to avoid tariffs.The tariffs, economic experts have said, have only hurt the American economy and its consumers, and an announcement earlier today from the Trump administration appears to lend their views credence.	Liberal
Sean Spicer, embattled former White House Communications Director and Press Secretary for President Donald Trump, resigned from his position in 2017. Then the man dubbed Spicey did what most prominent political figures now do: sought a book deal.The resulting book,The Briefing: Politics, the Press, and the Presidentreleased Monday July 23, 2018, received a not so favorable review from The Wall Street Journal Tuesday. Jonathan Karl, a political journalist with extensive background covering the nation’s capital, took Spicer to task for the many factual inaccuracies in the book.But then, from the man Kellyanne Conway famously stated used “alternative facts” in his press briefings, should anyone have expected a different Sean Spicer in print?Holy smokes, this @jonkarl review of Sean Spicer’s book https://t.co/qqSMB4lh6t pic.twitter.com/AScyfCr6l7 Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) July 24, 2018And while reviews and presales of Spicer’s book remain tepid, Karl’s review of the book is being hailed as a must read.Gotta read – @jonkarl on the Spicer book – https://t.co/7t83s8lVYs Rick Klein (@rickklein) July 24, 2018I don’t know if Sean Spicer’s book is worth reading. But @jonkarl ‘s review is. https://t.co/vNS8NEqx1e Ethan Harp (@EthanHarpNews) July 24, 2018In addition to pointing out the deviation from facts in The Briefing, Karl also takes Spicer’s conclusions about what he should have done to task. Like most memoirs, Spicer uses the opportunity of hindsight to reflect and respond.According to Karl, Spicer needs to do a bit more reflecting on what the right thing to do is. Such as the then newly minted Press Secretary’s infamous reaction to his boss’s obsession with inauguration crowd size.At the beginning of his book review, Karl writes:“Early on a Saturday morning in January 2017, the day after the inauguration, Sean Spicer got his first phone call from the… president… ‘Sean, have you seen the news?’ The president had seen a panel discussion on television comparing the size of the crowd at his inauguration with the size at Barack Obamas. …Spicer hadnt planned on giving his first briefing until Monday, but he answered the call of duty.”And there began Mr. Spicers tenure as one of the most widely scorned press secretaries in history: a briefing on Saturday afternoon during which he scolded the press corps, spat out false statements and left the podium without taking questions.”“With more than a year to reflect on that moment, Mr. Spicer… comes to a novel conclusion about what happened that day. ‘I had wrongly assumed I knew what Donald Trump wanted,’ Mr. Spicer writes. ‘Instead of bringing the White House press corps to heel, he had wanted a polished, nuanced argument defending his position’that is, that Mr. Obamas crowd was not bigger than his. ‘Every time the president had checked in with me, I had said like a good soldier, Were on it, Mr. President’,’.”“Actually,’ Karl continues in the review, “there was another option: He could have told the president it is a mistake to spend his first day on the job obsessing over something as trivial as crowd size and, further, that there is no way to make a ‘polished, nuanced argument’ defending a position that is demonstrably untrue.”Mr. Spicers book is much like his tenure as press secretary: short, littered with inaccuracies and offering up one consistent theme: Mr. Trump can do no wrong.”And social media appears to agree with Karl’s assessment based on reactions to the book in the Twittersphere.	Liberal
Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-GA) said the political situation facing President Donald Trump is similar to the one that plagued Abraham Lincoln during an interview onHannity Monday night.Gingrich and host Sean Hannity were discussing the recently released FISA warrants that were used by the Justice Department to monitor nefarious conduct by Trump campaign aide Carter Page.can you believe this? Newt Gingrich just compared Trump to Abraham LincolnTHIS IS JUST UNBELIEVABLE and Wrong pic.twitter.com/G805iTx7zP— PoliticsVideoChannel (@politvidchannel) July 24, 2018“I guess the question is, in history, we’ve had some very challenging times, can you think of a bigger abuse of power in our history?” Hannity asked.“Look, I think the person whose situation is the most like President Trump’s was Abraham Lincoln,” Gingrich replied. The veteran Republican then implied no president except Lincoln has faced political opposition in the same manner that has vexed Trump.Lincoln is fighting to preserve the Constitution, he’s fighting to preserve the Union, and he’s having to do a lot of different things that are very bold and in some cases very radical, and he is trying to do it in a way that he’s deeply, bitterly opposed, not just by the slave-owning South, but also by a substantial number of Democrats in the North, and I think that Trump’s in a very similar place.Gingrich appears to be suggesting that Democratic opposition to Trump parallels the slave-owners’ disdain for Lincoln and that without Trump, the union is in danger of falling apart.Robert Mueller is like Abe Lincoln fighting to save the Union— Julie Elaine (@Legaltwitwit) July 24, 2018Twitter didn’t take kindly to the comparison. How can Gingrich compare Trump, who lies six to ten times per day on average, to “honest Abe?”@newtgingrich compared a man who cant seem to tell the truth about anything to Abraham Lincoln… Honest Abe. Yeah… were done here. The Kool-Aid has been chugged and theres none left. I cant wait for this insanity to end.— Joe Milne (@rhythmicalexile) July 24, 2018Abraham Lincoln never committed treason. Of course nothing Newt says surprises me. Remember when he said "there is a small man inside of Donald Trump who lashes out at his Republican allies and is frankly pathetic…Yeah, Newt gets it right sometimes.— Mec Fossette  (@MecFossette) July 24, 2018He meant to say Mussolini. It was a double negative mistake.— Jonathan Stewart #glovesoff (@Jonatha00149388) July 24, 2018Nothing could be ANY FURTHER away from REALITY or the truth!  Trump & Lincoln!? Give me a break! Thats complete CRAZY Lincoln Ended the souths way of slavery  Do TRUMP or Newt KNOW THAT FACT about Lincoln?Sounds more like MOST people actually compare him to Benedict Arnold!— MoonLight StarBright (@birdyyodas) July 24, 2018@newtgingrich @seanhannity  Do you realize Trump lies to the American people daily but you guys still defend him and his lies.  Why should the American people listen to you all?— James Milo (@QuickCashTax) July 24, 2018A true disgrace. Comparing Lincoln to Trump… Honest Abe to lying Don? A man supporting the end of slavery to a man that steals from his workers and doesnt pay them?  Comparing a man of moral standing to a man that raped a 13 year old? Give me a break.— Steven Demarest (@steven_demarest) July 24, 2018Lincoln “didn’t divide the American public” with “violent, false rhetoric.”the propaganda continues, it will play well with their base.  Facts don't matter.  Lincoln was not the racist Trump is and he didn't intentionally and continually  divide the American people with his violent, false rhetoric. But his base will like Lincoln comparison.— Concerned Citizen (@RyuuWaterDragon) July 24, 2018@newtgingrich the red hats would have fought for the confederacy, they wouldnt have been on Lincolns side.— Gnarly Charlie (@charlie_gnarly) July 24, 2018Nor are the speaking skills of Trump and Lincoln anywhere close to equitable.#Trump #SupernovaOfIgnorance speaks at fourth-grade level, lowest of last 15 U.S. presidents https://t.co/CEb6GwIPin so unless you're a moron ( his #MAGA cult base ) why listen to this #clown https://t.co/0sZZY5Mk78 with asslcown #GOP as feckless servile supplicants— Steve Ardire (@sardire) July 24, 2018#trump worst Pres. ever https://t.co/UMuGPP1YNu #Putin puppet, pariah, lies non stop, #racist #SupernovaOfIgnorance, sexual perv, morally bankrupt but loves bankruptcy, totally corrupt, ignorant #MAGA cult base, #GOP feckless servile supplicants, #Dems win big in Nov— Steve Ardire (@sardire) July 24, 2018Amazingly, this wasn’t the first time the former Speaker has tried to put Trump and Lincoln on the same level.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s attorney Rudy Giuliani toldBloomberg News thatTrump will only answer questions from special counsel Robert Muellerthat are about possible collusion between his election campaign and Russia and so long as Trump isnot asked any questions about obstruction of justice. The reason: Because it could lead him to be charged with perjuryif Mueller believes the versions of events presented by other witnesses.The president’s legal team made their offer in a proposal submitted to Mueller. Giuliani says Mueller has not yet responded to the proposal.Naturally, the proposal has come under significant scrutiny, with many wondering what the presidentwho has often denigrated Mueller’s investigation as a mere “witch hunt”could be hiding.Guiliani will only allow Donald Trump to answer questions from Robert Mueller's team if they are directly related to collusion. So what is Trump hiding that he will only allow questioning to be that specific? https://t.co/Mvyk5TBsyy— James Kosur (@JamesKosur) July 24, 2018Memo to @RudyGiuliani Criminals do not set the terms of justice. The more you insist on a pathetic narrative of having control over this scenario, the more you prove how helpless you are to do anything about it. #TrumpTreason #PutinsPuppet https://t.co/CJusxLxp65— American Resistance (@TheAmerican22) July 24, 2018@RudyGiuliani you can't pick questions you fool. Mueller doesn't need to question @realDonaldTrump. He already has enough on him. https://t.co/VVKmMYNsSx— Sammy (@Cozey333) July 24, 2018Rudy Giuliani: Trump Will Answer Mueller Questions About Russia, Not Obstruction – Newsweek So Rudy says trump wont answer questions on obstruction because he could perjure himself, whats Rudy telling us? https://t.co/SvWSmqKZBT— Sue (@littlesueellis) July 24, 2018Nothing wrong? The reason why Robert Mueller what's the interview is to get to the bottom of the Collision but Donald Trump said no question. Isn't it hilarious Trump supporters that he is scared of committing perjury but swears he has done nothing wrong?— Dwayne Dunaway (@dunaway_dwayne) July 24, 2018Trump has previously said that he would be willing to talk with the special counsel and, in an interview with CBS last week, he said just that.When asked about whether the chances he’d sit for an interview with Mueller are better or worse than they were last year, Trump responded:My lawyers are working on that.Ive always wanted to do an interview, because, look, theres been no collusion. Theres been no talk of Russia.”Giuliani, however, has said the opposite. Earlier this month, he said a sitdown between Trump and Mueller is “probably further away than before.”“You’re a lawyer, would you walk your client into a kangaroo court with guys who donated $36,000 to his opponent, cried at her loss party, represented the scoundrel who broke the hard drive?” Giuliani asked Fox host Laura Ingraham in response toFBI counterintelligence agent Peter Strzok’s testimony beforea joint House Judiciary and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing.Giuliani added, in reference to Strzok:If you have an objective group of people that you could persuade, of course you would consider testifying. But if you have people that are like him … they never unraveled the taint that he created.Giuliani insisted that Democrats’ willingness to defend Strozk indicated that Mueller’s investigation “is falling apart of its own weight.”A week before the Fox News interview, Giuliani said that Trumpwill only agree to an interview with Mueller’s team if the special counsel provides evidence that Trump has committed a crime and proves that the probe cannot be completed without Trump’s testimony.“If they can come to us and show us the basis and that its legitimate and that they have uncovered something, we can go from there and assess their objectivity,Giuliani toldNew York Times reporters.Legal experts have long opined that Mueller could indict Trump for obstruction of justice, a historic first for a sitting president. They’ve also predicted thata case against the president would likely move to the Supreme Court because there is no legal precedent for an indictment of a president.But two Justice Department legal opinionsone in 1973, the other in 2000say its not a viable option.	Liberal
Last Thursday, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen claimed that billboards in Central America were encouraging those looking to emigrate to the United States to do so illegally.During an interview with NBCs Peter Alexander at the Aspen Security Forum, Nielson expressed President Donald Trump’s administration’s frustration with “loopholes” in American immigration policy that supposedly incentivize illegal immigration..@SecNielsen says there are billboards in Central America on illegal immigration. That's False. https://t.co/tdscBcPvKB pic.twitter.com/XuhJGMcBn4— PolitiFact (@PolitiFact) July 23, 2018“There are billboards in Central America in the Northern Triangle countries advertising how to grab a kid to get into the United States illegally. Because that loophole is so big,” Nielsen said, citing a Department of Health & Human Services statistic that “10,000 unaccompanied children are in DHHS care.”That’s 10,000 children whose parents sent them on this journey without any parental supervision; with smugglers, with traffickers, with other adults.On Monday, the fact-checking website Politifactrated Nielsen’s claim as “false,” noting there is no evidence that such billboards exist.“PolitiFact was unable to find any evidence of the billboards Nielsen described,” Politifact wrote. The group said it reached out to Nielsen’s office asking for documentation of the billboards the secretary was describing, but have not received a response.Politifact stated that experts familiar with the regions from which people are trying to get into the United States, specifically El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala, “have traveled to Central America told us they have never heard of or seen such billboards.”You can watch the full interview here:In fact, as Politifact pointed out, the only billboards that have been erected in the “Northern Triangle” were put in place by the Obama administration, “but their goal was todeterillegal immigration, not encourage it.” The billboards were actually implemented to discourage people from coming to the United States fromEl Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala.Poverty and violence are the primary reasons people flee those countries, according to Politifact.Politifact also corrected Nielsen’s claim that immigrants“grab a kid to get into the United States illegally.” American immigration law does not determine entry based on whether or not an immigrant is traveling with a child, Politifact said, adding: “the law allows parents and children to apply for asylum in the United States, even if they entered the country illegally.”“I did not see a single billboard related to migration, and definitely not promoting migration,” Stephanie Leutert, director of the Mexico Security Initiative at the University of Texas at Austin, said. “The only thing I saw/heard while on the country’s highways was an announcement on the bus radio warning would-be migrants of the dangers of traveling to the United States and how smugglers might abandon them in the desert.”Leutert recently returned from a three-week trek through Guatemala, wherein she gave no indication there were any billboards or notices giving instructions on how to enter the United States.Leutert added that Guatemalans are under the assumption that asylum-seekers without children can be expected to be detained for the duration of their case, and that those will children may be released temporarily with an ankle monitor.“However, this was 100 percent not due to any potential billboard, as this is not how people get their information related to U.S. migration policy,” Leutert said. She noted that those looking to come to the United States hear about American border policy through social networks, friends, and family who have made the journey.Twitter shared its thoughts on Nielsen’s remarks, with users blasting the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy that ripped children from their parents at the border. Voices on social media blasted Nielsen for what they see as more lies about Trump’s treatment of immigrants.	Liberal
The official White House Twitter account posted a video Monday of President Donald Trump speaking at the Made in America event being held at the White House. In the tweet, they included the hashtag #MadeinAmerica.“American manufacturers gathered at the White House today to showcase American-made goods from all 50 states. #MadeinAmerica,” the tweet reads.American manufacturers gathered at the White House today to showcase American-made goods from all 50 states. #MadeinAmerica pic.twitter.com/QzTVCpOkDU The White House (@WhiteHouse) July 23, 2018The short video clip showed the President before a display of products from each of the 50 states all “Made in America.”However the internet being what it is, people seized upon the hashtag to make a point to the Trump Organization the private businesses owned by the family and the Trump presidential administration.People shared photos of Trump brand merchandise labels, showing the goods were not #MadeinAmerica. Instead of kudos, people trolled the First Family accusing them of hypocrisy.Happy #MadeInAmerica Day! pic.twitter.com/ijJAtO3HFS jordan (@JordanUhl) July 23, 2018Well that seems odd….. pic.twitter.com/OaAenoztwo Kel Varnsen (@_Kel_Varnsen_) July 23, 2018Everything from golf shirts……to ties……to suits……to the hats synonymous with the President were shared with the hashtag #MadeinAmerica.After considerable criticism, official MAGA logo hats sold on the President’s campaign website are now made in the United States according to fact checking organization Politifact, but people online claim free hats given away at rallies are still made in China.Other members of the Trump family received negative feedback for their branded products as well, most notably First Daughter Ivanka Trump. Tweets and images called her out for her products manufactured overseas.	Liberal
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders confirmed on Monday that President Donald Trump is considering revoking security clearances for several former high-ranking Obama administration officials.Speaking to reporters during a press briefing, Sanders said that Trump feels that the individuals – former FBI Director James Comey, former CIA Director John Brennan, former CIA & National Security Director Michael Hayden, former Director of National IntelligenceJames Clapper, former National Security Adviser Susan Rice, and former Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe – should lose theirclearances over their continued criticism of the president’s relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin.Sarah Sanders: "Not only is the president looking to take away Brennan's security clearance, he's also looking into the security clearances of Comey, Clapper, Hayden, Rice, and McCabe…because they've politicized and in some cases monetized their public service" pic.twitter.com/Gt3cZipbtc— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 23, 2018“The president is looking into the mechanisms to remove security clearancebecause they’ve politicized and in some cases monetized their public service and security clearances,” Sanders said.Comey, Brennan, Clapper, Hayden, Rice, and McCabe, Sanders added, have made “baseless accusations of improper contact with or Russia.”This explanation echoes Senator Rand Paul’s tweets from earlier in the day:Is John Brennan monetizing his security clearance?  Is John Brennan making millions of dollars divulging secrets to the mainstream media with his attacks on @realDonaldTrump ?— Senator Rand Paul (@RandPaul) July 23, 2018Public officials should not use their security clearances to leverage speaking fees or network talking head fees— Senator Rand Paul (@RandPaul) July 23, 2018Twitter wasted no time slamming Sanders for the ultimate hypocrisy of the Trump administration accusing others of monetizing public service.Sarah Sanders: "The Trump critics are monetizing their public service positions". Trump never divested himself of his businesses and is literally profiting off of his presidency.— Denizcan Grimes (@MrFilmkritik) July 23, 2018Monetizing public service was the whole point of Trump running for president.— Boom Boom (@Josh1938) July 23, 2018"monetized their public service"… Trump Adm has set the standard for this, No?— Joseph Castro (@Joseph_ZestLife) July 23, 2018If the criteria for removing security clearances is the politicization and/or monetization of those clearances, shouldn't Jared and Ivanka be added to that list as well?— Stellae Incognita (@Michael84546622) July 23, 2018Because when it comes to "politicized and in some cases actually monetized their public service and their security clearances, that is what Trump and his family are there for. pic.twitter.com/vm4zDhSWtF— Lee Ann Lewman (@LALewman) July 23, 2018Does that mean he's going to revoke his own security clearance for monetizing and politicizing his public service?— forestgreencoyote (@ElephantCoyote) July 23, 2018When, in this administration, did monetizing your public office become frowned upon?— Tony (@PedroMapache63) July 23, 2018Others felt there was something else disturbing about this tactic.	Liberal
Conservative commentator Ann Coulter attacked President Donald Trump Monday on Twitter, accusing him of the same thing many liberals have: using Iran as a distraction for his current Russian woes.But unlike others, who urged the President to focus on Flint’s water, Puerto Rico’s hurricane recovery or reuniting families separated by his Department of Homeland Security, Coulter directed Trump elsewhere:Trump’s long promised as yet unrealized border wall.“Iran is not our problem. You want to distract them from Russia, [President Trump]? Start building the wall,” Coulter tweeted.Iran is not our problem. You want to distract them from Russia, @realDonaldTrump? Start building the wall. Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 23, 2018Coulter who is currently not employed by any major television or radio networks or major news publishers still writes a column featured on six conservative websites: Human Events Online, WorldNetDaily, Townhall.com, VDARE, FrontPageMag, Jewish World Review and on her own web site.In 2016, Coulter published the book In Trump We Trust: E Pluribus Awesome! but fell out of favor with many of the President’s supporters over her repeated criticisms of him. Coulter’s continued influence in conservative circles continues to wane in favor of younger social media darlings like Tomi Lahren or those with regular programs on Fox News like Laura Ingraham.Her latest criticism of Trump, posted Monday around 10:30am EST, garnered only 3,470 likes, 830 retweets and 445 comments by 3:30pm. Meanwhile a post by Parkland shooting survivor and activist David Hogg from roughly the same time already had over 20,750 likes, 5,100 retweets and 1,100 comments.Coulter may still be talking, but is anyone actively listening?A review of her recent tweets show paltry responses, well below 1,000 likes on most, for an account with 1.99 million followers from Coulter’s heyday.It could spell disaster for Lockheed-Martin’s bottom line! https://t.co/RHfwifU6Nn Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 20, 2018For the most part, Coulter only gets attention on social media when she invokes the name of and tags the account of President Trump.Responses to Coulter’s tweet today are an interesting mix of people applauding her for staying on target with the MAGA hardline “Build the Wall” rhetoric…How much is #TheWall going to cost per #American? I want to be the first to donate. #BuildTheWall #MAGA Omar Oropesa (@OmarOropesa) July 23, 2018It would cost less than we spend on illegals in a single year, but RINO congress will never allow it to happen Woofer McWagger (@Bubsganoush) July 23, 2018start planting landmines on the southern border. faster and cheaper. stock trader (@stocktradr) July 23, 2018focus on building the wall and what the hell happened to the infrastructure bill ? Trump needs to 1 ) get rid of Ryan 2) stop threatening Iran Jim W ?????????????? (@j1mwinter) July 23, 2018I’ve got $19.95 to put in to a wall crowd fund it? Sam Bedsaul (@SamBedsaul) July 23, 2018Amen sister. I admire the fighting spirit of our President. But I wish hed quit falling for the democrats game of getting him to talk about their lies, instead of his accomplishments. If hed stay on point, he be at 50%+ in popularity. Samuel Adams (@jgrissom63) July 23, 2018Amen ???? Denny Roberts (@denny_roberts50) July 23, 2018Yes. The real wall. Not fence repairing or barriers. Frank (@Frank31042106) July 23, 2018Finally I agree with you in something monty63 (@zumyny) July 23, 2018BUILD THE WALL! Nick Collins (@Collinsnick0082) July 23, 2018…and those attacking her for criticizing Trump…	Liberal
The Russian government has released footage of a newly developed nuclear weapon capable of avoiding detection by American defense systems and specially designed to spread radioactive fallout over as wide an area as possible.The footage was released just days after President Donald Trump held a private meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland.The Poseidon nuclear torpedo is one of the latest generations of atomic weapons Russia has added to its arsenal. In May, the Russian defense ministry announced that Poseidon can carry a two-megaton thermonuclear warhead and is intended to be able to destroy enemy naval installations and inflict as much damage as possible to surrounding areas. The ministry first teased the existence of Poseidon in 2015.“It will be possible to mount various nuclear charges on the torpedo of the Poseidon multipurpose seaborne system, with the thermonuclear single warhead similar to the Avangard charge to have the maximum capacity of up to 2 megatonnes in TNT equivalent,” reported Russian news agency TASS.The unidentified source within the defense ministry added that Poseidon“is primarily designed to destroy reinforced naval bases of a potential enemy.”Gonna destroy the planet #weredoomed #Putin #Trump "The Poseidon" is an underwater, high-speed nuclear-capable torpedo unlike any other nuclear weapon.Russia just released videos of its next generation of nuclear weapons  Here's what we know https://t.co/FEXeKuLdU4— Laura Ann (@LauraLonergan23) July 20, 2018But Poseidon is far more deadly than the bombs with which the world is familiar.Russia reveals first pictures of its nuclear armed ultra long range underwater autonomous submarine/torpedo. It can travel 10000km at a depth of 1km and speed of 185km/h, to detonate its warhead close to target. https://t.co/BSmh3tvmL9— ianpatterson (@ianpatterson99) July 20, 2018Normally, nuclear and thermonuclear weapons are engineered to deliver a knockout punch of heat and pressure to a specific, albeit large target such as a city. Radioactive fallout is generally a side-effect, affecting a relatively small radius around the explosion.Poseidon,however, carries the ability to spread lethal radioactive fallout over a widespread area. This enhances the destructive potential of this terrifying new torpedo.POSEIDON, ultra long range torpedo, in a new video by the Russian MOD pic.twitter.com/6D3IwHk7Ve— Tal Inbar (@inbarspace) July 19, 2018“Nuclear weapons only generate significant amounts of radioactive fallout when they are detonated at, near, or beneath ground level,” Stephen Schwartz, author of “Atomic Audit: The Costs and Consequences of US Nuclear Weapons Since 1940,” told Business Insider.“Where the fireball does not touch the surface of the earth,” Schwartz said, “the only fallout is from the bomb debris itself and any dust particles in the air that come into contact with it.”Schwartz added Poseidon can “suck up dirt, or water, contaminates it with debris from the bomb, and then lofts it into the atmosphere,” allowing deadly nuclear waste to be distributed over thousands of square miles. In this case, a plume of radioactive cobalt could irradiate a substantial part of the planet for decades.When a thermonuclear weapon is surrounded with ordinary cobalt (cobalt-59) metal, the fast neutrons escaping the explosion will instantly transmute it into radioactive cobalt-60, which would vaporize, condense, and then fall back to earth tens, hundreds, or thousands of miles from the site of the explosion.	Liberal
In an interview on CNN program New Day, Connecticut Democratic Representative Jim Himes made a charge that others echoed: President Donald Trump sees provoking a war as a way to solve his political problems.In the wake of the President’s late Sunday all caps Twitter threat directed at Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, people had questions and concerns. Are we going to war?Himes, who serves on the House’s Intelligence Committee, stated in his New Day interview Monday morning that things are not dire enough to characterize the United States and Iran as being on the brink of war just yet.“Look, I think it’s an overstatement to say that we’re at the brink of war,” Himes told New Day anchor Alisyn Camerota. “I think that’s  I think that’s probably not true.”What concerns me more is that if you look back at a bunch of President Trump’s tweets before he was president, he criticized, several times, Barack Obama and said ‘you just wait, he’s going to start a war with Iran if he feels like he’s on the political ropes’  and so, that’s in his head. That’s what worries me.”“So clearly, he understands this modus operandi. He’s thinking of this modus operandi,” Camerota remarked after sharing several past tweets from Trump. “This is in his head. So where does that leave us with what he’s doing today?”Himes responded by stating United States citizens no longer have the specter of war in the Middle East at the front of their conscientiousness like they did 10 years ago during the height of the war in Iraq.“…most people have forgotten what it is to open the newspaper every single day and to read four or five or six American names who were killed in a Middle Eastern war.”“And if Iraq was tough, wait until you try Iran. Iran is a much more powerful country than Iraq ever was.”Anyway, my point being that we need to be very sensitive to the fact that this president, who doesn’t have a very sophisticated sense of international relations, regards a war as a way to solve political problems and that’s a scary thought.”Watch the interview where it picks up here.“We need to be very sensitive to the fact that this President, who doesn’t have a very sophisticated sense of international reltations, regards a war as a war to solve political problems, and that’s a scary thought,” says Rep. @JAHimes https://t.co/knxXo25qw3 pic.twitter.com/i06tw4PEbK New Day (@NewDay) July 23, 2018Camerota then asked Himes what can be done to avoid war as a political ploy.“Well, I think  I think two things can happen in the Congress,” Himes responded.The big thing is that Congress finally, after generations, needs to reassert its constitutional authority and duty to be the entity in the U.S. government that actually declares war. You know, this has been a problem under Democratic and Republican presidents, you know, and there are efforts. It’s just that they don’t seem to go anywhere.”“Secondly  look, I think we are approaching November,” Himes continued, alluding to the midterm elections on Tuesday, November 6. “November is going to be very interesting.”I still think even though most Americans are starting to forget the horrors of the Iraq War that there is an ability to say hey, do we really want to go back to the brink? Do we really want to contemplate another Middle Eastern war? That could become an election issue.”Himes is not the first to point to the 45th President’s tweets about starting a war just to distract the public and bolster public support. Others in the Twittersphere pointed this out today too.	Liberal
Representative Maxine Waters (D-CA) has sparred with President Donald Trump on more than one occasion, and their already adversarialrelationship is certain to become even more heated now that Waters has referred to Trump as “Putin’s apprentice.”Watersmade the comment in an interview withMSNBCsAMJoy.During the same interview, Waters suggested that Republicans should do more to curb the president’s notoriously impulsive nature. She also took Trump to task for his decision to side with Russian leader Vladimir Putin over the assessment from U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia orchestrated cyberattacksagainst the 2016 presidential election.Waters said:Im not surprised about what happened in Helsinki. Im not surprised about the private meeting. Im not surprised about this president standing up for Putin. As a matter of fact, I think he is Putins apprentice. Hes been under his tutelage for a long time now, and he intends to get it done and the American people are standing idly by.And the Republican Party should be ashamed that they are allowing it to happen.They have no courage. Theyre not standing up for America. I dare them to talk about how patriotic they are given what they are allowing this president to do..@RepMaxineWaters: [Republicans] have no guts. They have no courage. They're not standing up for America. I dare them to talk about how patriotic they are given what they are allowing this president to do. #AMJoy pic.twitter.com/mlQd2NC96Y— AM Joy w/Joy Reid (@amjoyshow) July 22, 2018@RepMaxineWaters calling @realDonaldTrump "Putin's Apprentice" is fantastic: pic.twitter.com/effwDbiZxw— Bay Brat (@Bayl3rat) July 23, 2018The praise that Trump has continued to lavish on Putin is of increasing concern given what we know of Putin’s involvement in the presidential election, and accusations that Trump is “Putin’s puppet” have dogged him ever since. Having now referred to Trump as “Putin’s apprentice,” Waters found that this nickname for the president was well received.Maxine on AM Joy about Trump: I think hes Putins Apprentice. Wouldnt Trump hate it if that trended? #PutinsApprentice— Jennifer Gierat (@jfgierat) July 22, 2018'Putin's apprentice': Maxine Waters is spot-on in her assessment of con-man quisling Trump's insidious reasons why his meeting with Putin needed to be private.Trump has promised Putin he'll lift the sanctions, guaranteeing him the ability to plunder millions of dollars. #AMJoy— Bill Madden (@activist360) July 22, 2018https://twitter.com/BillieJeanDavy/status/1021054134273957888Yes, yes RepWaters, Trump is Putins Apprentice. Trump revealed he was Putins Apprentice at the #HelsinkiSummit. It was clear Putin was in charge. #AMJoy— Btrswet (@Btrswet) July 22, 2018OMG.@RepMaxineWaters rightfully calls out Trump as Putins APPRENTICE. #savage #correct #listen #reclaimingmytime #AMJoy pic.twitter.com/qTy1TMlPm4— Tracy Bains (@tbains) July 22, 2018The relationship between Trump and Waters came to a head last month after the president accused Waters of advocating harm against his supporters in an incendiary tweet last month.	Liberal
In the latest example of diplomacy via Twitter meltdown, President Donald Trump addressed the President of Iran, Hassan Rouhani, with an all caps threat Sunday night.To Iranian President Rouhani: NEVER, EVER THREATEN THE UNITED STATES AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE.”WE ARE NO LONGER A COUNTRY THAT WILL STAND FOR YOUR DEMENTED WORDS OF VIOLENCE & DEATH. BE CAUTIOUS!”To Iranian President Rouhani: NEVER, EVER THREATEN THE UNITED STATES AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE. WE ARE NO LONGER A COUNTRY THAT WILL STAND FOR YOUR DEMENTED WORDS OF VIOLENCE & DEATH. BE CAUTIOUS! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2018After Trump’s Twitter threat, Iranian state owned news agency IRNA reported their government dismissed Trump’s tweet as a “passive reaction” copying their own Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, who once warned the West to “never threaten an Iranian.”“Trump’s statements against Iran are psychological warfare. He is not in a position to act against Iran,” said General Gholam Hossein Gheypour, head of Iran’s Basij militia. He added the United States wont dare take military action against Iran, whose missiles can hit most of the Middle East according to the same IRNA report. General Gheypour also stated:We will not give up on our revolutionary values and beliefs and we will stand against imperialists and tyrants, and those few who have fallen for this psychological warfare of this crazy president should know that he wishes the destruction of all of us. Our people and our armed forces will stand up to enemies and will not yield.”Many pointed out, in response to Trump’s Twitter post, the United States no longer has a leader who won’t rise and react to every baited barb. But measured responses from other leaders drew prior criticism from Trump..@BarackObama was caught telling Russian PM @MedvedevRussiaE that he can be more ‘flexible’ in his second term. Russia thinks he’s weak. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2012While previous presidents analysed their national security advisers reports and responded diplomatically or militarily based on the need, Trump now takes to Twitter to taunt foreign leaders, trade barbs with domestic foes and attack all who criticize him in any way.The latest tit-for-tat began when Trump’s Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke extensively about Iran in a speech Sundayat the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in California, and subtly encouraged the Iranian people currently protesting in the Middle Eastern country to rise up against their government, stating,I have a message for the people of Iran: the United States hears you. The United States supports you. The United States is with you.”The Trump administration rolls out new sanctions against Iran in August and urged allies to stop buying any Iranian oil by November.On Sunday, in response to Pompeo’s televised remarks, President Rouhani stated:Mr. Trump, dont play with the lions tail, this would only lead to regret. America should know that peace with Iran is the mother of all peace, and war with Iran is the mother of all wars.”Rouhani previously criticized Trump for threatening sanctions, moving the US embassy to Jerusalem in Israel and banning travel to the US from only certain Muslim-majority countries.Many point to Trump’s Twitter response to Rouhani’s statement as excessive and unnecessary.A man threatened a foreign power on Twitter in all caps because he was in a bad mood, but please tell me more about how women are too emotionally volatile to handle our shit. OhNoSheTwitnt (@OhNoSheTwitnt) July 23, 2018In May, Trump famously pulled the United States out of the 2015 internationally negotiated Iran nuclear accord designed to keep the Middle Eastern country from developing nuclear weapons. At the time, Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China publicly urged Trump not to.On Sunday, Pompeo provoked Iran, Rouhani warned the United States to stop and the situation devolved into a schoolyard session of traded taunts with Trump’s tweet.And many wonder how far the jabs will go.	Liberal
President Donald Trump once again reverted to calling the investigation into the Russian attack on the 2016 presidential election a “hoax.”On Sunday, Trump issued a tweet blaming President Barack Obama for not doing “something” about Russian efforts to disrupt the election. The president also asked why Obama “didn’t tell our campaign,” concluding that “it is all a big hoax.”So President Obama knew about Russia before the Election. Why didnt he do something about it? Why didnt he tell our campaign? Because it is all a big hoax, thats why, and he thought Crooked Hillary was going to win!!!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 22, 2018The president is not telling the truth. Again.First, the Obama administration issued a report in October 2016 detailing what they knew about Russian efforts to hack the DNC and use the stolen material to mount a disinformation campaign to sway American voters. The New York Times broke the story on Friday, October 7.The piece would have likely made front page news, however, it was pushed to page two. Guess what took its place? Trump’s infamousAccess Hollywood tape in which he can be heard saying he likes grabbing women by the p*ssy, leaked that same afternoon and monopolized the headlines.Second, Trump was told of Russia’s hacking of the DNC prior to the second presidential debate, which took place on Sunday, October 9. He was first briefed on the matter in Augustbut maintained his personal denial of the facts, deflecting the blame from Russia to China or “somebody on their bed that weighs 400 pounds.”I don’t think anybody knows it was Russia that broke into the DNC. She’s saying Russia, Russia, Russia, but I don’t — maybe it was. I mean, it could be Russia, but it could also be China, he told NBCs Lester Holt on Sept. 26. It could also be lots of other people. It also could be somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds, OK?The president’s campaign knew what was happening and chose to deny it, ignore it, and lie about it.So we now find out that it was indeed the unverified and Fake Dirty Dossier, that was paid for by Crooked Hillary Clinton and the DNC, that was knowingly & falsely submitted to FISA and which was responsible for starting the totally conflicted and discredited Mueller Witch Hunt!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2018And while it’s true that Obama and most of the political world thought Hillary Clinton was going to win the election, it was Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell who threatened to make Obama’s life hell if he brought any morepublic attention to the issue of Russian election hacking.For its part, the Obama White House brooded over what to do with this information without looking like it was trying to sway the election toward Clinton. Obama did, however, order afull review of Russia’s actions, which the 44th president wanted to be completed by the time he left office on January 20, 2017.In fact, according to a December 2016 report in the Washington Post, McConnell expressed doubts over the veracity of CIA’s conclusion that Russia was interfering in the election.In September, during a secret briefing for congressional leaders, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) voiced doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to officials present.The Trump campaign vigorously denied the allegations.“These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history. Its now time to move on and Make America Great Again,” the campaign said in astatement.	Liberal
In an op-ed for The San Diego Union-Tribune,Christine Todd Whitman, the former Governor of New Jersey who later served as the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under President George W. Bush, called on President Donald Trump to resign after his “disgraceful” performance during last week’s press conference in Helsinki. The president sparked international controversy after he sided with Russian President Vladimir Putin over the assessment of his own intelligence agencies that Russian operatives subverted the 2016 presidential election and undermined American democracy.In the days since the press conference, Trump, Whitman writes, has demonstrated “that he is not fit to remain in office.” She adds: “Trumps 2016 ‘America First’ platform might be more aptly named ‘Russia First’ after the disaster that occurred last week.”Calling Trump’s actions “indefensible,” Whitman called on her fellow Republicans to urge Trump to resign:Trumps turn toward Russia is indefensible. I am a lifelong Republican. I have campaigned and won as a member of the party, and I have served more than one Republican president. My Republican colleagues  once rightfully critical of President Obamas engagement strategy with Russian leaderVladimir Putin have to end their willful ignorance of the damage Trump is doing both domestically and internationally. We must put aside theGOP label, as hard as that may be, and demonstrate the leadership our country needs by calling on the president to step down.Whitman notes thatTrumps “sycophantic relationship” with Putin is “unsurprisinggiven his previous comments about Russia and its dictator,” and calls it “shocking” that he has possessedand disregarded”hard evidence” of Putin’s meddling. (As aNew York Times report last week pointed out, Trump received information about Putin’s involvement early in January 2017.)Whitman continues, this time asking her fellow Republicans what Trump has to do before he is removed from office. She notes that his actions are indicative of “someone who should be navigating delicate diplomatic discussions and setting foreign policy”:Trumps repeated public dismissals of the intelligence coming from his own deputies is deeply disturbing. Along with his walk back of statements last week, and then walking back the walk backs, its impossible to keep up, and his behavior warrants a fresh evaluation of whether the president can be trusted with the future of the United States. His apologists will argue that the current outcry is just another attempt by moderates and establishment Republicans to discredit the president. But what does this man have to say or do for his supporters to finally see that his actions are detrimental to the country?Trumps avowed respect for the word of a dictator who has spent decades undermining the U.S. and its allies is utterly dangerous. Putin is not our ally. Despite the presidents dismal attempt to change the narrative by explaining that he misspoke in Helsinki, the pattern is clear: As a candidate and as president, he has constantly praised Putin just as he has constantly undercut the core institutions of our democracy  the courts, the media and the FBI. He has a history of discrediting members of his own Cabinet and the agencies they lead. These are not the actions of someone who should be navigating delicate diplomatic discussions and setting foreign policy.Trump later claimed to have misspoken during the press conference and walked back his assertion that Russia did not interfere in U.S. elections. (He has changed his tune on this at least twice in the days since.) But Whitman says that if Trump “did genuinely misspeak on Monday, it demonstrates his inability to articulate accurately U.S. foreign policy at the highest level, for the highest stakes”:As the leader of the free world  as ridiculous as that title sounds when applied to Trump  his words matter. If he cannot take his place at a podium next to an adversarial foreign leader and stand up for Americas interests and principles, he should not be president.Whitman adds that Trumphas “alienated our true allies in Europe and undermined the United States reputation as a consistent, reliable moral force for good in the world”:He disdains democracies and admires dictatorships. What appears to matter to him is not what leaders represent but how they flatter him. North Koreas Kim Jong Un and Putin have cracked that code and fan Trumps ego in a way that respected heads of state do not.Republicans must choose their country over their party, Whitman says. It’s “an overused trope,” she notes. “But it is essential now.”	Liberal
One upcoming event lost in recent news is the military parade President Donald Trump ordered the Pentagon to arrange. Trump wanted a big parade of United States military forces ever since attending the Bastille Day Parade in Paris, France, as the guest of French President Emmanuel Macron.The President and First Lady traveled to France to attend the festivities of the 100th anniversary of the United States entry into World War I. Needless to say, France pulled out all the stops for the special occasion.Which led the U.S. President to lament the lack of such extravagant displays for him back in Washington DC. But according to information from the planning for the Trump mandated military parade, the display of U.S. military might can best be described as excessive and expensive.About 50 military personnel of the United States Military District of Washington (MDW) now dedicate their time to planning the President’s parade scheduled for Saturday, November 10.The Pentagon plans between 5,000 to 7,000 servicemembers marching from the United States Capitol building to before the President at the White House viewing area. About 100 vehicles, 50 aircraft and 100 horses will jointhe service members on foot, representing all branches of the military.In a March memo, United States Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, excluded the use of tanks, despite Trump requesting them.The General wanted only wheeled vehicles in order to “minimize damage to local infrastructure.”The streets and sidewalks of Washington DC were not designed for tank traffic. And as per military regulations, payments to repair any damage done to the streets comes directly from the Pentagon budget.Instead of tanks, the General suggested “a heavy air component at the end of the parade, to include older aircraft as available.” Joint Base Andrews, shared by the United States Air Force and United States Navy, falls within the MDW and is where Air Force One is maintained.“It is anticipated that several thousand Armed Forces personnel will participate in the parade, as well as provide ceremonial support including musical units, marching bands, and color guards, to render appropriate ceremonial honors to our Nation’s military members, Veterans and their Families,” a spokesman for U.S. Northern Command said in a statement.The parade will honor the contributions of veterans, the current force, and the future force. More details and specifics about the Veterans Day Military Parade will be announced at a later date.”The President received heavy criticism from military members, the public and veterans when he proposed his military parade back in 2017.Louisiana Republican Senator John Kennedy stated “confidence is silent” in regards to the need for the United States to display their military prowess in an over the top parade in the manner of North Korea or the former Soviet Union or China. AndTexas Representative Marc Veasey andSenator Ben Cardin of Maryland, both Democrats, attempted to block the use of taxpayer funds to pay for the parade.Under military regulations, the expense of transporting, feeding and housing the parade participants must come from the Pentagon’s 2019 budget for such ceremonial functions. The estimated cost of the parade stands at $12 million, although earlier estimates stated a total between $10 million to $30 million.As a result, the military may not be available for other color guard duties during fiscal year 2019, which begins October 1, 2018, little more than a month before the parade.Which presents another potential issue.	Liberal
Jeanine Pirro’s appearance onThe View took social media by storm yesterday after she came to blows with moderator Whoopi Goldberg over President Donald Trump’sperformance in Helsinki earlier this week, and she tells fellow Fox alum Sean Hannitythat Goldberg “came” at her and “screamed F you” after the segment aired..“So forget about what she did to me on set, which was horrific in itself but the treatment by Whoopi Goldberg is typical of what is going on in this country,” Pirro said. “The left, they invite you on to talk, they then wont let you talk, they throw you off the show and then they throw you out of the building. And heres the problem Sean, the problem is once one starts doing it, the rest of them are going to start doing it.”The full transcript of Pirro’s remarks to Hannity are below:If you listen to that, I havent watched it and I havent looked at what happening. Im still reeling from it to be honest with you. I went on thinking that we would have a discussion about the book. The truth is, that it was an attack on Donald Trump, and then on me. I sat there as Whoopi Goldberg pontificated about how horrible Donald Trump was and at one point I said you know Im here to talk about the book and then she went ballistic  ended the segment. She said thats it Im done and what people didnt see who were watching the show, was she yanked away from the desk where we were all sitting and she decided that she was going to end it. No one saw that, but it got worse.When I went off the stage, Sean, Im walking downstairs and I said something like, Whoopi I fought for victims my whole life and she came at me as I was leaving and she said F you in my face  literally spitting at me, F you, get the F out of this building. And I said to her, did you just say that? She said thats what I said, get the F out of this building and she was screaming at me and Im walking out of the building like a dog who was just kicked off. So forget about what she did to me on set, which was horrific in itself but the treatment by Whoopi Goldberg is typical of what is going on in this country. The left, they invite you on to talk, they then wont let you talk, they throw you off the show and then they throw you out of the building. And heres the problem Sean, the problem is once one starts doing it, the rest of them are going to start doing it.I said in the first segment  and again I have to look at it  I said we need to start talking about this stuff. We need to start recognizing that it doesnt matter if its Donald Trump or if its a Democrat running. Weve got to have a Department of Justice and FBI that is not corrupt. Ill tell you Sean, Ive been prosecutor, a judge for 30 years. Ive sat on murder trials  Id go toe-to-toe with anyone. Ive tried murder cases, Ive gone against drug cartels I have never been treated like that in my life. I was stunned.But Goldberg, who responded to the controversy onThe View earlier today, says Pirro is not telling the whole story.Things got hot on the air, but I want to clear up what happened afterwards,” Goldberg said, noting that Pirro had left some pertinent information out of her account of the events.Pirro was upset when she got here,” Goldberg said, because Ana Navarro, an anti-Trump Republican strategist was filling in forView co-host Joy Behar. She also said that she did not, in fact, end the segment, when she shouted, “Say goodbye, I’m done!” at Pirro.It ended when it was supposed to, Goldberg said.Pirro “then called everybody at the table a name I cannot repeat on TV and said it in front of the audience, she added.A witness who spoke toThe Daily Beast confirmed that after the segment concluded and Goldberg had stepped off the set, Pirro ripped off her microphone and yelled, “Those cocksuckers! This is exactly what I told them would happen.Goldberg says that Pirro confronted her andput a finger in [her] face, telling her, “Ive done more for victims than you ever will! In response, Goldberg says she said a few choice words I cannot repeat.Yes, I did say it, Goldberg said in reference to Pirro’s claim that Goldberg told her “F you,”but she denied spitting on Pirro.I did not intimidate her, she said. No one chased her out of here saying, Get out. But she did leave here cursing at the people who book the show, she cursed at the guys who do security for the show..@WhoopiGoldberg clears up what happened after our Jeanine Pirro interview: I rarely get stirred up  but I got stirred upand I did apologize for getting hot.For 20 years, this show has always had people on with different viewsbut you cannot come and call people names." pic.twitter.com/7Cb5XWjpYc— The View (@TheView) July 20, 2018I suspect this is going to go on, because she [has] a show on Saturday and stuff,” Goldberg said, referring to Pirro’s upcoming book,Liars, Leakers, and Liberals, in which Pirro claims to lay out the case against the anti-Trump conspiracy. “But look, you can come to this show, we treat everybody with respect. But you cannot come and call people names.Pirro has not responded to Goldberg’s account, but yesterday’s event became one of the week’s most talked about moments on television.The View hosts and Pirro had sparred over President Trump’s choice to contradict the assessment of his own intelligence agencies that Russian President Vladimir Putin had worked to subvert the 2016 presidential election and undermine American democracy.Pirro defended Trumps performance, saying,What was he supposed to do, take a gun out and shoot Putin? and deflected each time any one of theViewhosts tried to get a word in edgewise with, And what did Barack Obama do?	Liberal
On Friday, The New York Times revealed longtime lawyer, fixer and confidant of President Donald Trump, Michael Cohen, secretly recorded a discussion with then candidate Trump. The conversation took place two months before the 2016 presidential election and involved a story the Trump administration called “fake news.”While many point to the taped conversation as proof of the Trump administration lying about the President’s 10 month long 2006 affair with Karen McDougal, a formerPlayboy model, Trump’s current lawyer sees things differently.Rudy Giuliani, current Trump lawyer and media spin doctor, confirmed the President discussed paying offMcDougal, like he paid off Stephanie Clifford, to keep her silent. But the necessity of a payment by Cohen to McDougal was overcome by events.McDougal claimed she received a $150,000 payment through American Media Inc, parent company of The National Enquirer, for exclusive rights to her story of her affair with the then married Trump. The National Enquirer never ran the story before the election however, but their exclusive deal with McDougal kept her silent as well.“Nothing in that conversation suggests that he had any knowledge of it in advance,” said Giuliani regarding the recorded conversation.Giuliani claimed the men discussed only a payment from Trump to McDougal, not The National Enquirer payment.Since Cohen nor Trump directly made the McDougal payment, Giuliani states the tape exonerates rather than implicates the President.“It cant be more than a minute and a half,” Mr. Giuliani said, of the conversation. “Twice someone walks in  someone brings soda in for them. Its not some secret conversation. Neither one seems to be concerned anyone would hear it.”It went off on irrelevant subjects that have nothing to do with this. Its a very professional conversation between a client and a lawyer and the client saying, ‘Do it right’.”The fact the “it” Trump talked of doing right involved paying off a woman the President had an affair with did not seem to bother his current lawyer.	Liberal
A Republican congressman is sounding the alarm on Russia’s influence over President Donald Trump, adding to growing public opinion that the president is being manipulated and even controlled by Russian President Vladimir Putin and his vast covert intelligence operations.In a blistering op-ed in Thursday’s New York Times, Will Hurd of Texas wrote that Trump“actively participated in a Russian disinformation campaign” by meeting with Putin in Helsinki, Finland on Monday.As a member of Congress, a coequal branch of government designed to provide checks and balances on the executive branch, I believe that lawmakers must fulfill our oversight duty as well as keep Americans informed of the current danger.  Rep. Will Hurd https://t.co/jET6bi5aZX pic.twitter.com/9knh2PMkWH— NYT Opinion (@nytopinion) July 19, 2018Hurd, citing his experience as a former CIA officer, said he “never thought I would see the day when an American president” would become a target of manipulation by Russian intelligence."Over the course of my career as an undercover officer in the C.I.A., I saw Russian intelligence manipulate many people." https://t.co/jET6bi5aZX pic.twitter.com/7NtUlGW8gw— NYT Opinion (@nytopinion) July 19, 2018Hurd accused the president of failing to defend the American intelligence agencies’ unanimous conclusions that Russia attacked the United States by hacking the 2016 presidential election and mounting a campaign to influence voters in favor of Trump.“By playing into Vladimir Putin’s hands,” Hurd warned, Trump “actively participated in a Russian disinformation campaign that legitimized Russian denial” by holding a private summit with Putin in Finland.Hurd continued, adding that “lawmakers must fulfill our oversight duty” to keep the “American people informed of the current danger” posed by Trump and his unending submission to Russia.“Russia is our adversary,” Hurd added, noting that Russia’s history of meddling in elections throughout the world, propping up dictators, and invading “sovereign nations” such as Ukraine, “all to the detriment of United States interests.”“Mitt Romney had it right in 2012 when he told President Barack Obama that Russia was ‘without question our No. 1 geopolitical foe,'” Hurd wrote."Disinformation and chaos is a Russian art form developed during the Soviet era that Russia has now updated using modern tools. The result has been Russian disinformation spreading like a virus throughout the Western world." Read on: https://t.co/jET6bi5aZX— NYT Opinion (@nytopinion) July 19, 2018The American intelligence community has concluded and continued to warn of Russian efforts to “sow chaos in our electoral system,” he said. “Russias efforts to hack political organizations and state election boards are well documented, as are the Russian disinformation campaigns on social media platforms.”Thank you for serving our country and speaking out for the United States of America. Putting country over party takes courage.— winkingvenus (@winkingvenus) July 20, 2018This has resulted in “Russian disinformation spreading like a virus throughout the Western world,” such as the 2016 Brexit referendum which broke Great Britain from the European Union and Russian backing of right-wing nationalist candidates in France and Montenegro.Glad to hear this, but aren't you on the Intelligence Committee?  When, if ever, have you sided with your Democrat colleagues on the committee and went against Kompromised Devin Nunes, who shouldn't be weighing in on anything to do with Russia? Actions speak louder than words.— Deb Lane (@Marketers_Edge) July 20, 2018These actions, Hurd wrote, are intended to shatter the world order established after World War II that was put in place to prevent another global conflict.	Liberal
In a bizarre interview posted on her own Youtube channel, Roseanne Barr appears disoriented and disheveled, smoking and bellowing at the interviewer.Barr becomes increasingly frustrated before finally shouting, “I thought the bitch was white!” in reference to Valerie Jarrett, one of President Barack Obama’s top advisors.The subject of Valerie Jarrett has plagued Barr since her racist, since-deleted tweet in which she referred to Jarrett, who is African-American, as the baby of the “Muslim Brotherhood and Planet of the Apes.” The tweet culminated in the cancellation of the reboot of her sitcom, Roseanne. She blamed the statements on Ambien. A new reboot,The Conners, has been greenlit by ABC and expected to star the original cast with the exception of Barr’s character.Barr presumably orchestrated the unsettling interview and uploaded it to her own Youtube channel after a recent decision to end media interviews, which she claimed perpetuated an unfair perception of her. She announced the decision on Twitter earlier this month.After a lot of thought, I decided that I wont be doing any TV interviews, too stressful & untrustworthy 4 me & my fans. Im going to film it myself & post it on my youtube channel in the next week-the entire explanation of what happened & why! I love you all-sign up & get ready.— Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) July 10, 2018Id like to speak directly to you, the people, and cut out any middlemen who use for clickbait/ad revenue while seeking to divide rather than unite. Please email any questions you have for me at askroseannebarr@gmail.com and I will post answers to my YouTube channel next week.— Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) July 12, 2018The new video doesn’t seem to be any more helpful than her previous appearances, according to social media.Roseanne Barr on Valerie Jarrett. "I thought the bitch was white!"My thoughts on @therealroseanne: I thought the bitch had learned her lesson!Apparently not.— Ryan Knight  (@ProudResister) July 20, 2018@therealroseanne Assuming she's telling the truth about that and Ambien, the woman is still a bully.  Why would you say something so awful about anyone? I'm glad she's gone, the last thing we need is another role model like Trump. https://t.co/cqe6arY5Am— Dinah Perez (@DinahPerezLaw) July 20, 2018Wow, this is what a trump supporter looks like after being publicly scrutinize for being racist. #Yikes #StayInSchoolKids #DontBeARacist @therealroseanne https://t.co/r939udb7TI— Laura (@LauraDSalas) July 20, 2018Oh Roseanne  pic.twitter.com/nqhib16qg0— Kaze (@LoicKaze) July 20, 2018I knew you were a lying, hypocritical racist, Roseanne.  And I will not emend that statement.— pat blake (@EePat) July 20, 2018This is far from Barr’s first attempt to defend her Valerie Jarrett tweet.	Liberal
President Donald Trump on Thursday tweeted a partial video clip of Hillary Clinton talking about astrong Russia while she was serving as Secretary of State.“This is classic!” Trump said, implying that Democrats’ anti-Russia position was somehow hypocritical.Will the Dems and Fake News ever learn? This is classic! pic.twitter.com/kSX3ROI4QG— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 19, 2018We want very much to have a strong Russia because a strong, confident, prosperous, stable Russia is, we think, in the interests of the world, Clinton said in the clip.The president’sattempted swipe at his 2016 rival was met with immediate pushback by Clinton, who responded with a video of her warning Americans about Trump’s dangerously subordinate relationship with Russia.“That’s a clip from when Medvedev was president,” Clinton replied in a tweet.Thats a clip from when Medvedev was president. Heres what I said about Putins Russia. pic.twitter.com/a0bIeg1kZ4— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 19, 2018“What’s most striking about all of this, I would argue most important voters to consider, is the relationship between Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin,” the former secretary said in 2016. “Putin is a trained intelligence officer from the old KGB. He knows he can use flattery to get into Donald’s head, to make him a Kremlin puppet. And it seems to be working.”In the excerpt shared by the president, Clinton was responding to a question aboutAmericas place in the modern world.”Is it a force aimed at supporting the worlds equilibrium? Or is it a force aimed at changing the status quo? Russian-American journalist Vladimir Pozner askedClinton in a 2010 interview.Not once did Clinton concede anything to Putin.Its both in this way, Vladimir. It is a force to sustain an equilibrium that permits countries and individuals to progress, to become more self-realizing, Clinton replied. I mean, we want very much to have a strong Russia because a strong, competent, prosperous, stable Russia is, we think, in the interests of the world.But at the same time, there are countries and places where the status quo is just not acceptable. Last summer, I went to the Democratic Republic of Congo. I went to Eastern Congo where 5.4 million people had been killed in the last 15 years, the greatest death toll since the second world war. We dont want that status quo to be sustained.You can watch the entire interview here:Twitter also fired back at Trump for spreading “fake news.”Shocking @realDonaldTrump posts fake news. What an idiot.— Caro (@carogonza) July 20, 2018Excellent! Hit back more often!— William Hovard (@HovardWilliam) July 20, 2018People are exaseperated with Trump.Donald trump is a traitor to the American people and to the Constitution of the United States. Hilary Clinton would have been a great president. What a loss for this country. #TraitorTrump— Trink (@CujoChihuahua) July 20, 2018I so wish that you were in your rightful place in our White House, Hillary. Why on earth is the clown prince being allowed to run our country, our laws, our democracy, into the ground? We need you!— BMine (@americananonna) July 20, 2018Gosh @realDonaldTrump , this classy woman has just put you where you belong. How did she do that? She showed you factual information.Not the heavily edited, garbage attacks, you come up with.Kinda stings, doesnt it?— Evil Monkey (@Tirksnarfigular) July 20, 2018Thank you Hillary— Nancy Simon (@dogluv20) July 20, 2018love U! sad the traitor-in-chief stole the election w the help of America's sworn enemy but Im hoping U change ur mind & run in 2020 U will B the ultimite come back kid! U deserve it since U already won 3 million more votes than the guy who cheated his way into the White House!— Thaddius Novack (@Thaddius72) July 20, 2018Shes still slapping you down like the puppet you are!!! pic.twitter.com/0Bp8hWycYv— swg2507 (@swg2507) July 20, 2018Clinton famously referred to Trump as a “puppet” during the third presidential debate in 2016.	Liberal
During Thursday’sAspen Security Forum, Tom Burt, Microsoft’s VP of Customer Security & Trust, warned the crowd that hacks, like those during the 2016 elections by Russian government operatives, continue to happen. Three midterm candidates already suffered cyber attacks from Russian hackers.In 2016, Burt said his team discovered fake Microsoft domain names used by the Russian hacking groups given code names like Scrontium, APT28, Fancy Bear and Pawn Storm used to “phish” information from unsuspecting campaign staffers.Phishing is defined as the fraudulent practice of sending emails or websites appearing to be from reputable sources in order to obtain personal information, such as passwords and credit card numbers, to gain access to a person’s online data or accounts.The Russian hackers in 2016 used their phished information to gain access to the Democratic National Committee (DNC) servers. They then stole emails and records from the DNC which led to further hacking.The Russian intelligence operatives then leaked emails and private messages from the DNC as well as longtime Clinton aide Robert Russo and campaign chairman John Podesta. Russian operatives also famously contacted the Trump campaign with offers of damaging information about Hillary Clinton.Through Wikileaks, the Russiansreleased months of damaging disclosures about the Democratic Partys nominee intended to influence the United States presidential election. The administration of President Barack Obama began looking into the Russian hackers in 2016 and the Trump administration continued the investigation through Department of Justice appointed and directed Special Counsel, Robert Mueller.Now, in 2018, Burt stated during the cyber security conference, his team recorded the same phishing approach again.Earlier this year, we did discover that a fake Microsoft domain had been established as the landing page for phishing attacks and we saw metadata that suggested those phishing attacks were being directed at three candidates who are standing for election in the midterm elections.”“We cant disclose [their identities] because we maintain our customer privacy,” Burt continued, “but I can tell you that they were all people who, because of their positions, might have been interesting targets from an espionage standpoint as well as an election disruption standpoint.”“We took down that domain, and working with the government we were able to avoid anybody being infected by that particular attack.”Burt’s claims back up the announcement by President Donald Trump’s handpicked National Intelligence Director, Dan Coats, who on Monday stated the Russians remained a viable threat to United States cyber security. Coats statement came after the President cast aspersions on U.S. intelligence agencies’ clear evidence of Russian hacking by Tweet and during a joint news conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland.Trump took considerable criticism for his remarks and issued a statement Tuesday saying he misspoke.During the press conference in Helsinki, after the closed door private meeting with Putin,Trump said he didnt “see any reason why it would be” Russia hacking the United States to influence the 2016 election. Due to severe criticism, Trump later claimed that he meant to say he didn’t see any reason it “wouldn’t” be Russia.But on Wednesday the President again denied Russia was definitely involved in the known hacks and said Russia was no longer a threat because Putin knows he is very tough.The engineers at Microsoft call the Russian directed hacking group Strontium, but intelligence agencies and cyber security experts also refer to them as APT28,Fancy Bear and Pawn Storm.Experts claim their activities intertwine with Russias military intelligence unit known as GRU.While the hacking continues, as with many voters who skip midterm elections, Russian hacking remains at a lower intensity than during the lead up to the 2016 presidential election.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is still deflecting criticism from what’s become a veritable nesting doll of missteps on US-Russia relations.In an interview for CNBC, President Donald Trump decried former President Barack Obama for his supposed leniency toward Russia.NEW  President Trump tells CNBC: Obama was a patsy for Russia, 'I'll be the worst enemy' Vladimir Putin has ever had if relationship 'doesn't work out' https://t.co/taDZiXtZX7 pic.twitter.com/PXHuk4Nzea— CNBC Now (@CNBCnow) July 19, 2018The president said:Look at the sanctions I put on, look at the diplomats I threwout…Nobody else did what I’ve done.Obama didnt do it. Obama was a patsy for Russia, hewas a total patsy.Trump then referred to a 2012 exchange between then-President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev and then-President Obama. Caught on a hot mic, Obama discussed missile defense, telling Medvedev that he would have “more flexibility” on the issue after his election. The exchange occurred months before current Russian President Vladimir Putin took office again, and two years before Russia’s invasion of Southeastern Ukraine andannexation of Crimea, and before any evidence of attempts to meddle with United States elections came to light.According to Trump, no one talks about the incident, yet then-Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney blasted Obama for the gaffe during the 2012 campaign. It’s also been revived as a Republican talking point since Trump’s relationship with Putin has faced increased scrutiny.For Americans on social media, however, the 2012 exchange on a hot mic in Seoul was not enough to obscure Trump’s recent comments at a podium with the whole world watching.Trump says Obama was a patsy for Russia.I dont totally get psychological projection. But Im pretty certain that means Trump is a patsy for Russia.— Bryan Behar (@bryanbehar) July 20, 2018If youre on the right and twisting and contorting to defend Trumps comments today, revisit what you said about Obamas apology tours & his hot mic After my election, Ill have more flexibility comment to Medvedev. Our country deserves our consistency.   I condemn it all.— Jedediah Bila (@JedediahBila) July 16, 2018Trump: Obama was a patsy for Russia. A total patsy. He says he, conversely, is tougher than any president has been maybe ever.— Daniel Dale (@ddale8) July 20, 2018I always love when Trump supporters tell me to look up the tape of the hot mic of Obama. I dont need to, Im #Woke & informed… Anyone who puts that hot mic moment in the same universe as Trump/Russia/Election Meddling is totally uninformed. Stop watching @FoxNews people!! https://t.co/0FEaEAiDJd— NYC Marine (@dRiveraCash) July 16, 2018Yes, Trump has been tougher on Russia than any president, except of course Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Nixon, Ford, Reagan, Carter, both Bushes, Clinton and Obama.— Richard Stengel (@stengel) July 20, 2018Trump’s remarks come days after a speech given by Former President Obama at a South African celebration of the late Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday. The speech didn’t mention Donald Trump by name, but many took Obama’s words to be in reference to the infamous Helsinki summit the day before:Strongman politics are ascendant suddenly, whereby elections and some pretense of democracy are maintained, the form of it, but those in power seek to undermine every institution or norm that gives democracy meaning.It’s far from the first time the former President has gotten under Trump’s skin.	Liberal
Thursday was day three of damage control after President Donald Trump’s meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, so when Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats found out Trump had extended a White Houseinvitation to Putin, all he could do was laugh.Coats was on stage at the annual Aspen National Security Forum when MSNBC’s Andrea Mitchell interrupted theirinterview with some breaking news.Watch as DNI Dan Coats learns from @mitchellreports that Putin is set to visit DC in the fall pic.twitter.com/YSTIk02r1k— Deadline White House (@DeadlineWH) July 19, 2018So we have some breaking news, the White House has announced on Twitter, Mitchell said, that Vladimir Putin is coming to the White House in the fall.Say that again? Coats replied as he squirmed uncomfortably in his chair. Laughter erupted in the audience as the two appeared too stunned to process what they had just learned.Mitchell:Vladimir Putin, coming to theCoats:Did I hear you, did I hear you?Mitchell:Yeah, Yeah…“Okay,” Coats said, smiling awkwardly. “That’s gonna be special.”White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders tweeted that Trump had asked National Security Advisor John Bolton “to invite President Putin to Washington in the fall” and that “those discussions are already underway.”In Helsinki, @POTUS agreed to ongoing working level dialogue between the two security council staffs. President Trump asked @Ambjohnbolton to invite President Putin to Washington in the fall and those discussions are already underway.— Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) July 19, 2018Social media went off like a nuclear bomb, much like the nukes Russia announced they had begun testing following the Trump-Putin… meeting? summit? secret club initiation? in Helsinki on Monday.That was the most reserved WTF  I've ever seen.— Jon O. (@DMV_Makoto) July 19, 2018This is Saturday Night Live stuff.— Don Q Tupset (@DonTupset) July 19, 2018Sweet. Mother. Of. God.— i5kra (@i5kra) July 19, 2018@mitchellreports best reporting/interview of the day….great job!— Jay Wentzell (@JayMWentzell) July 19, 2018Is he coming for a walkthrough, or is he expected to take possession of the property at that time?— Shawn Posey (@PoseyNotes) July 20, 2018PRICELESS— Scott Balto (@ScottBalto) July 19, 2018You can't make this stuff up….— Ted Perlmutter (@tedperl) July 20, 2018This is Saturday Night Live stuff.— Don Q Tupset (@DonTupset) July 19, 2018Rumors began to fly that Putin’s visit may coincide with Trump’s desired military parade, and honestly, would anyone be surprised?Wait for it.  Remember the military parade Trump requested? Here you go.— Peg Wahrendorff (@pwdorff) July 19, 2018Also in the fall. https://t.co/62r7vIXgrQ— vlh (@coton_luver) July 19, 2018The White House responded on Thursday night as well, saying staffers were in an “uproar” because Coats was “laughing at the president.”JUST IN: Officials inside the White House were in a "uproar" over DNI Dan Coats interview, saying in some moments Coats appeared to be "laughing at the President," according to a report. pic.twitter.com/GcR4CUaMdk— MSNBC (@MSNBC) July 20, 2018The news of Trump’s invitation to Putin broke almost immediately after Coats told Mitchell he had no idea what Trump and Putin discussed in Helsinki.I dont know what happened in that meeting,Coats told Mitchell.If he had asked me how that ought to be conducted, I would have suggested a different way,” Coats added. “But thats not my role; thats not my job. So, it is what it is.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s administration ordered “thatBarack Obama not be given any assistance other than security arrangements by the American embassy in South Africa,” according toThe Citizen, a South African newspaper.Instructions from Washington ensured that none of the U.S. embassy staff assisted the former president, whose visit “was mainly arranged and coordinated by the Nelson Mandela and Obama foundations,” breaking the longstanding diplomatic norm of providing support to any visiting American leader, regardless of their party affiliation.According toWits University international relations visiting professor John Stremlau, President Trump had a penchant for pettiness and strange fixation with denigrating and dismissing virtually all actions by his predecessor.”He added:Trump rose to prominence on the lie that Obama was born in Kenya and hence was not legitimate. One should never underestimate how low he can go.But given how thin the embassy staff is, without an ambassador and several recent departures of lesser ranks, Washington would simply defer to the hosts.I recall when Obama was president and delivered the December 2013 memorial address for Mandela, a fake singer managed to con his way on stage and stand right next to him, said Stremlau, referring to the discredited Thamsanqa Jantjie. One would think that would be a warning both to the hosts and the US government.The president has often been accused of harboring racial animus toward his predecessor and did, as Stremlau notes,perpetuate the long-standingrumors and conspiracy theoriesthat have accused Obama himself of not being an American citizen, despite incontrovertibleevidenceto the contrary.Trump has often attacked Obama’s foreign policy and has, on top of his insistence that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether Russian operatives worked to undermine democracy is a Democratic ploy orchestrated by the prior administration, declared Obamaa patsy for Russia.Look at the sanctions I’ve put on. look at the diplomats I threw out. Look at all of the things that I’ve done. Nobody else did what I’ve done. Obama didn’t do it. Obama was a patsy for Russia. he was a total patsy. look at the statement he made when he thought the mics were turned off, okay? Trump said duringan interview with CNBCs Squawk Box that was taped yesterday and aired today.Getting along with President Putin, getting along with Russia is a positive, not a negative. Now, with that being said, if that doesn’t work out, I’ll be the worst enemy he’s ever had. The worst he’s ever had,” he added.NEW  President Trump tells CNBC: Obama was a patsy for Russia, 'I'll be the worst enemy' Vladimir Putin has ever had if relationship 'doesn't work out' https://t.co/taDZiXtZX7 pic.twitter.com/PXHuk4Nzea— CNBC Now (@CNBCnow) July 19, 2018These statements didn’t go over well with many observers, particularly since earlier this week, the president sparked one of the most heated scandals of his tenure to date when he sided with Russian President Vladimir Putin over the assessment from U.S. intelligence agenciesthat Russian operatives interfered in the 2016 presidential election and undermined American democracy.Trump says Obama was a patsy for Russia.I dont totally get psychological projection. But Im pretty certain that means Trump is a patsy for Russia.— Bryan Behar (@bryanbehar) July 20, 2018I know you are, but what am I? https://t.co/oOTDsN47ct— Aaron Blake (@AaronBlake) July 20, 2018Patsy: a person who is easily taken advantage of,  especially by being cheated or blamed for something.@realDonaldTrump should read that definition of the word 'Patsy'. The only way PRESIDENT OBAMA can be called a patsy is from Trump blaming him for everything.— Discouraged Citizen (@Porter19143) July 20, 2018I've said it before: everything @realDonaldTrump accuses others of is something he's done or is doing. The big shock is that he knows he's a patsy. https://t.co/auxdhYUUIu— Gayle Berens (@GBerens) July 20, 2018Calls for the presidents impeachment have intensified since he sided with Putin.President Putin says its not Russia. I dont see any reason why it should be, he responded after he was asked if he concurred with the findings of U.S. intelligence agencies that Russian operatives launched unprecedented cyberattacks on the democratic process.Joint Press Conference from Helsinki, Finland: https://t.co/fadLMDuGiY— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018The following day,the president walked back that assertion,saying he had misspoken when he appeared to accept Putins denials that Russia interfered.	Liberal
In the 1500s, an estimated 30 to 60 million North American bison or buffalo roamed the Great Plains of North America. But over hunting brought their numbers down to just325 wild bison left in the United States by 1884.But thanks to conservation efforts, the United States official national mammal recovered to 20,000-25,000 wild bison on public lands and at least 250,000 bison in private herds by the end of the 1990s. Much of the work was done thanks to laws like the Endangered Species Act (ESA).But industries like mining and oil drilling, see the ESA as a blockade to profits, not a tool for preserving the United States natural resources. To that end, the administration of President Donald Trump is proposing changes to the ESA.The proposal, announced jointly by the Interior and Commerce departments, ends the practice of extending similar protections to species that are listed as either endangered or threatened. If approved, protections for threatened plants and animals would be made on a case-by-case basis.The ESA defines an endangered species as “any species which is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range.” While the definition of threatened is “any species which is likely to become an endangered species within the foreseeable future throughout all or a significant portion of its range.”Under the new Trump provisions, industry can destroy habitat of threatened species until they become endangered. Then one hopes their endangered status is discovered before they reach extinction.Another portion of the proposal seeks to streamline environmental impact statements. At present, before a project, like an oil pipeline or strip mining, can begin an environmental impact assessment must be completed to gauge the effects on wildlife, plants and water tables. Industries with high levels of pollution, such as fracking and pipelines, argue the impact reviews harm their profits.Trump’s Interior Secretary, Ryan Zinke, faced criticism previously for decisions appearing to favor industry over natural resources. In particular, conservation groups and Native American tribes accused Zinke, and Trump, of reducing the size of Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-EscalanteNational Monuments to open the area for mining and oil drilling.The proposed changes got pushback from Democrats Thursday.	Liberal
Jeanine Pirro, the host ofJustice with Judge Jeanineon Fox News, appeared onThe View and sparred with Whoopi Goldberg over President Donald Trump’s performance earlier this week during a press conference in Helsinki. The president sparked controversy, accusations of treason, and calls for his impeachment after he sided with Russian President Vladimir Putin over the assessment from U.S. intelligence agenciesthat Russian operatives interfered in the 2016 presidential election and undermined American democracy.Pirro defended Trump’s performance, saying,What was he supposed to do, take a gun out and shoot Putin?” and deflected each time any one of theView hosts tried to get a word in edgewise with, “And what did Barack Obama do?Pirro continued, insisting that she’snot an ideologue,” and referred to Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the president’s Russia ties as a “con.” But it was when guest-host Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist and political commentator for various news outlets, asked her to justify her support for Trump that the appearance took a swift turn.NAVARRO:You just said you’re not an ideologue.Do you think Donald Trump embraces and embodies conservative ideology? He used to have a different position on pro-choice, he is imposing tariffs, he’s against globalism. Do you think he’s an ideologue that is faithful to conservative policies?PIRRO:Im not here to talk about what Donald Trump is or isnt. [She then asked Navarro to name one metricin which the U.S. is worse off since Trump took office; Navarro replied: “Hate crimes are worse off!”]After moderator Goldberg tried to get a word in, Pirro accused her of having “Trump Derangement Syndrome,” a phrase used by the president earlier this week to scoff at critics of his performance in Helsinki.Some people HATE the fact that I got along well with President Putin of Russia. They would rather go to war than see this. Its called Trump Derangement Syndrome!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 18, 2018Goldberg replied:Did you just point at me?Listen, I don’t have Trump derangement. Let me tell you what I have. Im tired of people starting a conversation with Mexicans are liars and rapists.Listen, I’m 62 years old. There have been a lot of people in office that I didn’t agree with. But I have never, ever seen anything like this. I have never seen anybody whip up such hate. I have never seen anybody be so dismissive.Their exchange quickly became more combative, with Pirro accusing Goldberg of downplaying “horrible” instances ofpeople who shouldn’t be here end up murdering the children of American citizens,” and Goldberg criticizing Pirro’s support forwhen the president of the United States whips up people to beat the hell out of people.”Say goodbye, Im done! Goldberg said, ending the segment before it could devolve further.After Pirro had left the set, Goldberg turned the camera and said:So you saw me do something I very rarely do. I very rarely lose my cool. And I’m not proud of it. I don’t like it. But I also don’t like being accused of being hysterical. That’s one of those things I try not to be on this show.So have a great day.Pirro later took to Twitter to decry “the left” for “intolerance” and plug her book,Liars, Leakers and Liberals, in which Pirro claims to lay out the case against “the anti-Trump conspiracy.”After being invited on @TheView this is what happened. This is an example of how the left is intolerant and this is why I wrote my book. #LiarsLeakersLiberals pic.twitter.com/QyVVV5Begn— Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) July 19, 2018Goldberg, for her part, has a fair number of supporters.I've watched @WhoopiGoldberg for years and have rarely seen her get riled. I have never seen her as mad as she got at Jeanine Pirro. It was glorious and I support that anger. #TheView— LaurenBaratzLogsted (@LaurenBaratzL) July 19, 2018See Jeanine Pirro is exactly why I dont want to understand Trump supporters. They come at you with lies, half the story ,lack intellectual honesty and always say what about….. and blame everything on Obama & Hillary. Nah I dont want to understand Trump supporters. #TheView— CutieMP (@CutieMP) July 19, 2018Jeanine Pirro says "I'm not an ideologue" and #TheView audience snorts with derisive laughter. I support those snorts.— LaurenBaratzLogsted (@LaurenBaratzL) July 19, 2018Watching Whoopi give Jeanine Pirro a verbal smack down made my afternoon. Love Whoopi. #TheView pic.twitter.com/pNue5latV6— DanielleN09 (@DanielleN_09) July 19, 2018Pirro’s comment that she is not an “ideologue” did earn a few laughs fromThe View audience, too, as she has often been accused of being too partisan, particularly where the president is concerned. During herView appearance, for example, Pirro characterized Muller’s investigation as “fake.”	Liberal
A majority of Americans disapprove of President Donald Trump’s handling of Monday’s summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland, according to a new CBS News poll.New Poll: Most Americans Disapprove of Trump on Putin Summit Majority of Republicans Approvehttps://t.co/ZTXjcGOap5 pic.twitter.com/jDXoJAoKG1— CBS News Poll (@CBSNewsPoll) July 19, 2018Released on Thursday morning just hours after Trump claimed he stood up to Putin about Russia’s attack on the 2016 presidential election, the poll showed that 55 percent of the country holds a negative view of how Trump dealt with the Russian autocrat earlier this week. That number was even higher among Democrats, with 85 percent saying theywere unhappy with Trump’s meeting with Putin.Only 32 percent of those polled approved of the president’s performance.Republicans, on the other hand, overwhelmingly approved of the president’s meeting with Putin. More than two-thirds – 68 percent – said they approved of the president’s summit with his Russian counterpart, while 21 percent held a negative view of it.Independent voters, who both parties must woo in order to maintain control of Congress, nearly matched the Democrats’ level of disapproval at 53 percent. A mere 29 percent of independents were in the approval column.CBS asked Americans if they agreed with the American intelligence community that Russia actively and deliberately interfered with the 2016 election.70% of Americans believe U.S. intelligence assessments that Russia interfered in the elections, though Republicans are more skeptical.https://t.co/ZTXjcGOap5 pic.twitter.com/1cqG5iwGmp— CBS News Poll (@CBSNewsPoll) July 19, 2018Seventy percent of respondents said they agreed, with the highest level being among Democrats at 89 percent. A mere eight percent of Democrats responded in the negative.Compare that to Republicans, who were almost evenly split between believing and not believing that Russia interfered with our election. Among the GOP, 51 percent said they agree, and 42 percent said they disagree with the unanimous conclusion of every American intelligence agency.Independent voters were almost identically aligned with the general public, with 67 percent believing and 26 percent not believing Russia attacked our democracy in 2016.When asked if they were concerned about Russia interfering in November’s midterm election, Americans were once again split along party lines.Eighty-seven percent of Democrats are “somewhat or very concerned” over future Russian election meddling, about which American intelligence agencies have been sounding alarms for months. Eleven percent were “not very or not at all concerned.”On Wednesday, Trump said “no” afterbeing asked if Russia is still trying to disrupt the American electoral process. This sentiment appears to be shared by his Republican base, 38 percent of whom said they were concerned. Sixty-one percent of Republicans said they were not concerned.The poll also asked Americans how they felt about Trump’s overall approach to Russia. The tally, which was not differentiated by party, showed that 46 percent of Americans think Trump is being “too friendly” toward Russia, an eleven point jump from last year. SSix percent said he is being “too hostile” and 41 percent said Trump’s approach is “about right.” A year ago, eight percent selected “too hostile” and 48 percent picked “about right.”The poll sampled 1,007 American adults at random from July 17-18 and has a margin of error of four percentage points.	Liberal
In an interview Tuesday with Fox News’ Tucker Carlson, President Donald Trump insulted the citizens of the small European nation of Montenegro and questioned the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance (NATO’s) Article 5. Article 5 is NATO’s common defense principle, which states that an attack against any member of NATO is an attack against all of NATO.“Why should my son go to Montenegro to defend it from attack?” Carlson asked the President during his Fox News interview.While Carlson phrased his hypothetical question as a what if venture using NATO’s latest small nation addition, Montenegro, Trump responded with disparaging comments about the people of Montenegro as if the character or integrity of Montenegro was Carlson’s point.“I understand what youre saying,” the President stated despite appearing to not understand the question. Trump then accused the people of Montenegro of having the potential to start WWIII because of their “very aggressive” nature.Ive asked the same question. Montenegro is a tiny country with very strong people … Theyre very aggressive people. They may get aggressive, and congratulations, youre in world war three.”Not willing to take the insult quietly, Montenegro responded on Wednesday with an official statement. They titled their response:Government of Montenegro: we are proud of our history, our friendship and alliance with USA is strong and permanent.”In it, they included:In today’s world, it does not matter how big or small you are, but to what extent you cherish the values of freedom, solidarity and democracy.”NATO grew out of the Washington Treaty signed after World War II. In Europe, Germany’s Nazi forces invaded their neighbors one by one in their rise to power. The aim of NATO is to halt such acts of aggression when they begin instead of each nation waiting until they are personally threatened.Under the terms of NATO, if such aggression should happen again, the aggressor would face more than just one country; they would face all of NATO. But President Trump disagrees.Tucker Carlson posited to Trump the idea of the United States defending a small country, then used Montenegro as a possibly not so random example of a very small nation. Montenegro, roughly the size of Connecticut, joined NATO in June 2017. They are the 29th, and latest, nation to join.Russia, who is not a NATO member, vocally disapproved of Montenegro’s 2017 inclusion in NATO. Russia has also been charged with meddling in Montenegro’s elections and staging a failed coup attempt in 2016.The small nation was once behind the Iron Curtain as part of the communist Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, although they opted not to officially ally with the Soviet Union in 1948.After the fall of communism and the death of Josip Broz Tito who ruled for 35 years, the republics split back into independent nations. Montenegro isbordered by Croatia to the west, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the northwest, Serbia to the northeast, Kosovo to the east and Albania to the southeast.News of Montenegro’s response hit the United States airwaves Thursday.	Liberal
In an interview on Tuesday, Former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer had expressed praise for current White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Sanders previously worked under Spicer as Deputy Press Secretary until Spicer’s resignation. The kind words for his replacement come almost exactly a year after she was appointed:I think Sarah has done a great job of making sure that she understands what the president wants. That was a challenge for me at the beginning. [Trump’s] an unconventional candidate and president. He’s a disrupter, and we were trying to adapt. And I think [Sanders] has done a good job of adapting to what he wants her to do and say and communicate his thoughts.It’s a frequent observation that obeying Trump’s orders requires Sanders to lie to the press, something she’s known to do. Spicer’s tenure as Press Secretary was swollen with lies as well, starting right after President Donald Trump’s inauguration:This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period, both in-person and around the globeSpicer made the claims despite photographic evidence and lower public transportation usage the morning of the inauguration. He would frequently be skewered after the comments and onward, most famously by Melissa McCarthy on SNL. In Tuesday’s interview, Spicer expressed regret for the crowd size comments.Though Americans on Twitter tend not to be fans of Huckabee Sanders, they’re not willing to forgive Spicer any time soon.I doubt Sarah Huckabee Sanders will be treated this well when she's out of a job, so why is everyone treating Sean Spicer as though he was held hostage by this administration for 6 months?— Jay Nonymous (@sglockenspeil) July 19, 2018I am sitting here completely flabbergasted listening to Sean Spicer on the Today show.  How can he and Sarah Huckabee Sanders and all of the other Trumpkins sleep at night, knowing that they are helping Trump to blindly hand our country over to Russia?  #TreasonSummit— Chris Lefevre (@writerunblocked) July 19, 2018Why is the Today Show interviewing Sean Spicer? He is just the ex-liar for Trump. I hope after Aunt Lydia is no longer @PressSec we don't elevate her from nothing more than a soul less hackto news worthy.— Judy (@BluGreyhound) July 19, 2018How very astute of Sean Spicer now. Why did @seanspicer debase himself by lying and insulting the American public for so long? What makes Spicer believe any decent person wants to hear his opinions now? His credibility is shattered.Same message for Sarah @PressSec Huckabee. https://t.co/FqFnq6Q3wH— Tersa  Terse (@TerryTerse) July 19, 2018The lies have battered both of their reputations.	Liberal
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau quietly shuffled his cabinet around on Wednesday, hinting that he has had enough of President Donald Trump’s aggressive posturing on North American trade.BREAKING: PM Justin Trudeau has made significant changes to his cabinet, bringing five new ministers to the table and creating new portfolios for seniors, intergovernmental affairs and border security. https://t.co/TKrT5fP0Av— CBC News (@CBCNews) July 18, 2018Trudeau tapped former natural resources minister Jimm Carr to head the ministry of international trade diversification, signaling Canada’s desire to reduce its dependence on trade with the United States as threats of a trade war loom between the NAFTA member nations.An under-the-radar move by Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau showed that Canada is ready to get tough with Trump on trade https://t.co/nLBcdD505Q— Business Insider (@businessinsider) July 19, 2018The cabinet shake-up is widely seen as a prequel to Trudeau’s re-election campaign, which is expected to be a contentious race.Make no mistake  Trudeau's cabinet shuffle is his re-election kickoff: Chris Hall https://t.co/zPgGaLLgyb #hw #cdnpoli pic.twitter.com/JKWHToSLby— CBC Politics (@CBCPolitics) July 18, 2018The move comes weeks after Trudeau announced nearly $13 billion inretaliatory tariffson a variety of American products, including aluminum, steel, orange juice, and whiskey, in response to Trump’s levying of a tax of 10 and 25 percent on imported Canadian aluminum and steel, respectively.Trudeau described Trump’s imposition of tariffs on Canadian goods as “frankly insulting” during last month’s G7 summit. Canada is the largest importer of steelto the United States. Last year, 70 percent of Canada’s trade took place with the United States, and 64 percent of Canada’s GDP is generated through trade with other countries, the World Bank says.“There is certainly a level of clarity for Canadians, for businesses, for everyone across this country that we need to diversify our markets,” Trudeau said at a press conference. “We need to ensure that we are not as dependent on the United States.”Gerald Butts, one of Trudeau’s closest advisors, sent a tweet emphasizing the importance of “diversifying” Canada’s trading markets. “We need to get Canadian resources to markets other than the United States,” he said.#Trade diversification has never been a more urgent national priority. We need to get Canadian resources to markets other than the United States. https://t.co/P7aQuTOWEW— Gerald Butts  (@gmbutts) July 18, 2018Canada’s concerns over the future of trade with the United States have increased in recent days due to Trump’s threat of additional tariffs on imported cars and auto parts. The U.S. Census Bureau reported Americans bought $55 billion worth of automobiles and parts from Canada in 2017.	Liberal
On Thursday, Russian President Vladimir V. Putin came out in full force for President Donald Trump, for whom Putin orchestrated a campaign to sway the American election.Echoing the sentiments of Trump and his administration, Putin lauded the leaders’ recent summit as “successful” and criticized unspecified forces for sowing a negative perception of Donald Trump and the meeting in Helsinki.Breaking: In speech to Russian diplomats in Moscow, Putin says summit with Trump was "successful overall and led to useful agreements." pic.twitter.com/hK6K7CjBpf— Lucian Kim (@Lucian_Kim) July 19, 2018Americans on Twitter found Putin’s praises unsettling.It sure was a successful summit. For Putin. #TreasonSummit pic.twitter.com/PORdn1tfd2— Horacio Royce (@HoracioRoyce) July 19, 2018I am sure @realDonaldTrump is his favorite pet, he paid a lot of money to buy a @POTUS pic.twitter.com/PC5CW70ZZQ— Linda (@GoldieAZ) July 19, 2018Lets call in the translators and ask them what progress was made @realDonaldTrump #ImpeachTrump— MeKat (@YosemiteNDN) July 19, 2018Putin’s statements bolster Trump’s insistence that the meeting–which was behind closed doors and not transcribed–led to immense progress for U.S.-Russia relations. Trump, like Putin, hailed the meeting and demonized his critics, but unlike Putin, he took to Twitter to do so:The Summit with Russia was a great success, except with the real enemy of the people, the Fake News Media. I look forward to our second meeting so that we can start implementing some of the many things discussed, including stopping terrorism, security for Israel, nuclear……..— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 19, 2018….proliferation, cyber attacks, trade, Ukraine, Middle East peace, North Korea and more. There are many answers, some easy and some hard, to these problems…but they can ALL be solved!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 19, 2018Russia was just one of the topics the president covered Thursday morning through an erratic series of ten tweets in four hours.Though Putin’s description of the summit is similar to Trump’s, the Russian president contradicted the White House in the statement as well.	Liberal
In his opening monologue Wednesday night, theJimmy Kimmel Live host spent most of his time talking about the same thing much of the internet was discussing: President Donald Trump’s latest questionable statement and his administration’s attempts to backpedal from it.While speaking to the press during a Wednesday cabinet meeting, the President answered “No” when asked by ABC News reporter Cecilia Vega, twice, if Russian meddling in United States political affairs was still an issue.Vega shared her side of the story on Twitter.Getting a lot of questions about my exchange with @realDonaldTrump today. Yes, he was looking directly at me when he spoke. Yes, I believe he heard me clearly. He answered two of my questions. Heres the full exchange: pic.twitter.com/F3QmDSFzpT Cecilia Vega (@CeciliaVega) July 18, 2018The questions from Vega are clearly audible on the video of the exchange and the President can be seen looking right at her to answer.However during the Wednesday White House press briefing, Press Secretary Sarah Sanders claims the President responded to a question that no one asked, not the one that can be heard, while looking at the reporter that just asked if Russia was still targeting the United States.And Jimmy Kimmel is calling out the “Sarah Hucka-B.S.” on that latest White House reinterpretation of videotaped events. Watch the video below.Kimmel shared his own light-hearted list of Presidential walkbacks to start his monologue.“Before we begin, I have today’s corrections from the White House. They asked me to help get a few messages out,” the comedian explained while pretending to read from a sheet of paper in a clear mocking of the President’s own Tuesday walkback of his Monday remarks during the Vladimir Putin joint press conference in Helsinki.During that Tuesday correction to his Monday comments, Trump read from a written statement, until he went off script at the end and reiterated that Russia might not be involved at all in the cyber attacks against the United States or with interfering in the 2016 presidential election.“First of all, the president meant to say that Papa John was treated unfairly, not fairly,” the comedian began. “He mistakenly carried the ‘un’ from his meeting with Kim Jong Un, who he would like to clarify is not a great guy under that chubby exterior.”“Second, the president did not intend to say that Kentucky Fried Chicken is a healthy breakfast for children. And he would like to retract the name ‘junior’ from Donald Trump Jr. as it has become clear his son is kind of a douche.”“Oh, this has been some week for Donald Trump,” the late-night host continued after his opening joke.He has been double and triple talking his way thorough the fallout from his puppet show with Vladimir Putin on Monday. As I hope you know, Trump did what was previously unthinkable. He publicly sided with Putin over our own U.S. intelligence agencies which did not go over well with Democrats or some of his fellow Republicans.”“Yesterday he made the very shabby claim that when he said he didn’t see any reason why Russia would hack the election, he meant to say he didn’t see any reason why they wouldn’t hack the election which was a ridiculous claim that no one believes, with the possible exception of the morning suck-ups at Fox & Friends.”Kimmel then showed footage of Ainsley Earhardt on the Fox News morning program. Earhardt states “…he misspeaks one word, one contractionhe forgot to put the ‘n apostrophe t’ at the end of ‘wouldn’t’and it ruins the whole summit?” In response to Earhardt, Kimmel chuckled and said,Its outrageous, you know. Thats like saying one little flame on the Hindenburg ruined the whole ride on the blimp.”“But Donald Trump isn’t burdened by reality,” Kimmel continued. “He only listens to the voices in his head and those voices think he is doing great.”Kimmel followed this with footage of some of Trump’s remarks from his Wednesday cabinet meeting.	Liberal
President Donald Trump’s tariffs25 percent on steel and aluminum importshas reduced the workforce ofMid Continent Nail Corp., a Missouri plant, by 20 percent and “could be out of business by Labor Day  or that remaining production could move to Mexico or another country,”The Washington Postreports.That’s the opposite outcome from what the president and his supporters claimed would happen once his tariffs went into effect and,The Post notes, which “have instead hampered a Mexican companys multimillion-dollar effort to create jobs in the United States.”Indeed, when Deacro, the Mexican company, purchased Mid Continent Nail Corp., the plant’s workers had expressed fears that their jobs would be outsourced to Mexico. That’s not what happened at all. Mid Continent’s factory doubled in size, bolstered, in part, by fewer restrictionson steel exports after the North American Free Trade Agreement. The plant’s workers enjoyed a time of relative prosperity and Mid Continent “shipped steel into Missouri, willing to pay skilled workers more to take advantage of cheaper energy costs in the United States and a location that allowed swift delivery to U.S. customers.”Layoffs have already begun; the company now employs fewer than 400 workers, down fromabout 500 before President Trump’s tariffs took effect last month.Were in a situation where were fighting against our own country, said Chris Prattno, notthatChris Prattan operations general manager at Mid Continent. It seems like a battle we shouldnt be having to fight.Pratt says the company is “in a situation where were fighting against our own country.” He added:It seems like a battle we shouldnt be having to fight.According to Jim Glassman, a Mid Continent spokesman, “moving nail production to Mexico or another country is a possibility, but it is a bad alternative. Mid Continent does not want to move and is not planning to do so.” He said that the plant’s workers remain hopeful that “President Trump will save their jobs.”One of these workers isPhilip Bennett, a machine repairman. Bennett has health insurance through the company that covers his five-year-old daughter, who has a congenital heart condition for which she’s undergone multiple surgeries.Theres a lot of good things that he is doing. But hes affecting me now, and I dont appreciate it, said Bennett, who voted for President Trump.I mean, I dont expect him to come down here.Itd be nice  and see what hes affecting, and see the people hes hurting.And hurt them the tariffshave: While the workers fear additional layoffs and an eventual closure of the plant,The Post notes that “not a single Mexican employee has been fired.”When interviewed by reporters from Deacro’s headquarters in Monterrey, Mexico,Luis Leal, the company’s vice president of trade, said:The strength of the domestic market [in Mexico] has helped us.”The hits the president’s tariffs have dealt the economy continue to be felt, but if you ask the president, the economy is “stronger than ever before.”The economy of the United States is stronger than ever before!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 17, 2018In recent days, the president has taken to boasting of economic and job records, though the datanow and thenshows that he inherited a healthy economy from President Barack Obama. His comments appear to be a distraction from the scathing criticisms he’s facing since his performance during a press conference in Helsinki, during which he sided with Russian President Vladimir Putin over his own intelligence agencies and their assessment that Russian operatives interfered in the 2016 presidential election and undermined American democracy.3.4 million jobs created since our great Election Victory – far greater than ever anticipated, and only getting better as new and greatly improved Trade Deals start coming to fruition!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 18, 2018Trump recognized Russian Meddling MANY TIMES. Thank you to @foxandfriends and @FoxNews for actually showing the clips. The Fake News wants no part of that narrative! Too bad they dont want to focus on all of the ECONOMIC and JOBS records being set.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 19, 2018The president has not responded to any observations about the effects his tariffs have had on factories like Mid Continent Nail Corp., whose workforces are comprised of many people who voted for him with the expectation that he would remedy a decline in American manufacturing.	Liberal
After days of publicly questioning the U.S. Intelligence community’s assessment that Russia was responsible for interference in our 2016 election, President Donald Trump took to CBS News on Wednesday to insist that he does hold Russia responsible for meddling and now claims that he talked tough with Putin about it when they met.Russian Pres. Putin routinely denies involvement in U.S. election meddling, despite conclusion of U.S. intelligence community."So if you believe U.S. intelligence agencies, is Putin lying to you?" @jeffglor asks. @POTUS: "I don't want to get into whether or not he's lying." pic.twitter.com/mrkYIGpggc— CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) July 18, 2018In an interview on CBS’sEvening News,Trump told Jeff Glor he “let him [Putin] know we can’t have this, we’re not going to have it, and that’s the way it’s going to be.”Below is a transcript of the interview, in which the president claims to have challenged Putin’s denial of Russia’s interference in our election.It should be noted that Trump’s version of events cannot be verified because notetakers were not invited to accompany either leader. Only translators for Trump and Putin were permitted to attend the meeting.GLOR:“You say you agree with U.S. intelligence that Russia meddled in the election in 2016.”TRUMP: “Yeah and I’ve said that before, Jeff. I have said that numerous times before, and I would say that is true, yeah.”GLOR:“But you haven’t condemned Putin, specifically. Do you hold him personally responsible?”TRUMP:“Well, I would, because he’s in charge of the country. Just like I consider myself to be responsible for things that happen in this country. So certainly as the leader of a country you would have to hold him responsible, yes.”GLOR:“What did you say to him?”TRUMP:“Very strong on the fact that we can’t have meddling, we can’t have any of that  now look. We’re also living in a grown-up world. Will a strong statement — you know — President Obama supposedly made a strong statement  nobody heard it. What they did hear is a statement he made to Putin’s very close friend. And that statement was not acceptable. Didn’t get very much play relatively speaking. But that statement was not acceptable. But I let him know we can’t have this, we’re not going to have it, and that’s the way it’s going to be.”Twitter tore into Trump following his remarks.“They’re laughing at you on every news show in Russia…Putin thinks you’re an idiot.”Note to Trump: they're laughing at you on every news show in Russia. They're even making tiny hands jokes. Dear God, how oblivious can you be?Putin thinks you're an idiot. He gave an interview about how he dominated the meeting. Are you that debased? Thought you were strong.— Dr. Hilarius (@MilesHilarius) July 18, 2018Here's Russian state media acknowledging that Trump is a Russian assethttps://t.co/9oqUGj0x71— Nobel Pees Prize Trump (@Chris_09765) July 19, 2018“Trump badmouths everyone but Putin,” one user stated.Fact is Trump bad mouths anyone & everyone except for Vlad Putin. Just think about it. He has been talking shit to people for years. From celebrities & athletes to politicians & Presidents.But he refuses to disparage Putin.Why? The guy is owned by Russia. #TreasonSummit— Jeff Roybal (@Matrix_EndGame) July 18, 2018When they tell me something, it means a lot what the h… does that mean? Hes gotta go. pic.twitter.com/Iu8b2U8WpX— Khalil (@cfrank149) July 19, 2018No one is forgetting that Trump urged Russia to hack the DNC in July 2016, which they subsequently did the very same day."It's very bad for our country." "Russia, if you're listening, I LOVE WIKILEAKS!!" @jeffglor https://t.co/r2S1jIbgUm — Barry Johnson (@Eco_Promos) July 18, 2018What an absolute disgrace! Trump is taking the piss out of the US &the rest of the world!Hes in position because of Putins meddling, he wont let go of that position& @GOP are enabling him to avoid repercussions.Its diabolical that this is allowed to go on even 1 day longer!— Steve B (@B1rdSteve) July 19, 2018When pressed over whether he believes Putin is lying to him, Trump said: “I don’t want to get into whether or not he’s lying.”Trump refuses to say whether Putin is lying to him.GLOR: So if you believe U.S. intelligence agencies, is Putin lying to you?TRUMP: "I don't want to get into whether or not he's lying." (via CBS) pic.twitter.com/KL9bWHYU1c— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 18, 2018This too was met with fierce blowback on social media.He just cant say it. pic.twitter.com/knuNTHEua9— Hayan (@HAyan744) July 18, 2018TRUMP: "I don't want to get into whether or not he's lying." He has called SOMEONE/SOMETHING a liar for every single day of his presidency and every single day while campaigning.Yup. #Kompromat — Twinkie Republic (@TwinkieRepublic) July 18, 2018Putin isnt lying to @realDonaldTrump. He doesnt have to. Trump has rolled over and sold his black soul to Russia and knows exactly what putin is doing.— Colleen Healing (@colleen_h1) July 18, 2018On Wednesday night, the New York Times published a bombshell report showing that President-Elect Trump was shown detailed classified intelligence in January 2017 proving Putin personally ordered Russian military officers to wage a disinformation campaign on American social media as well as cyber attacks on voting systems in an effort to sway the election to Trump.	Liberal
On an already rough day for White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, things only got worse. After being unable or unwilling to answer multiple questions, reporters from competing press outlets, NBC’s Hallie Jackson and The Hill‘s Jordan Fabian banded together when Sanders tried to block Jackson’s follow-up question.In an unusual twist, after Sanders refused to allow @HallieJackson to ask a follow-up question, @Jordanfabian gave the floor back to Jackson. pic.twitter.com/zOJTRbKmHI Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) July 18, 2018Jackson’s original question, which Sanders talked over and failed to directly address or answer, concerned the credibility of a president constantly having to have his words reversed or reworded or reinterpreted to create a meaning different than the one everyone heard.In a clip of the question, Sanders becomes increasingly annoyed and eventually tried to deflect by immediately throwing the floor to a different reporter, Jordan Fabian. But Fabian threw the floor back to his colleague Jackson.Jackson later thanked Fabian on Twitter to which he responded that he just extended “some professional courtesy.” Then Fabian called for unity among the White House press corps.Just extending some professional courtesy. All of us in that room are trying to do our jobs and it’s important the press corps be united around that mission. https://t.co/6LAwkbIz2m Jordan Fabian (@Jordanfabian) July 18, 2018Sanders arrived 40 minutes late for the first press briefing at the White House since July 2. A lot happened since July 2.Sanders is now 40 minutes late and counting pic.twitter.com/YRmDabEItR Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) July 18, 2018On Wednesday, Sanders again appeared blindsided by the latest misstep by President Donald Trump in the Russian interference scandal that has plagued his administration since before he took office. That Wednesday afternoon misstep, after everything that occurred before it, may explain Sanders’s tardiness to her own briefing.During a cabinet meeting Wednesday, Trump said “No,” Russia was not still engaging in cyber attacks on the United States or attempting to meddle in U.S. political affairs, in direct contradiction to his own national security advisors.And then Press Secretary Sanders had to try to offer a positive spin on the comment in that afternoon’s press briefing. Her response, that the President was answering a question no one asked instead of the only question audible in the video, from Cecilia Vega, failed to gain traction.Asked about Trump’s bizarre comment earlier Wednesday that Russia is no longer targeting the US, Sanders walks it back, says “he was saying no to answering questions.” #lulz pic.twitter.com/RlgfGCVfp9 Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) July 18, 2018Getting a lot of questions about my exchange with @realDonaldTrump today. Yes, he was looking directly at me when he spoke. Yes, I believe he heard me clearly. He answered two of my questions. Heres the full exchange: pic.twitter.com/F3QmDSFzpT Cecilia Vega (@CeciliaVega) July 18, 2018The President’s contradiction of U.S. intelligence sources drew such attention because of the events between July 2 and Sander’s July 18 press briefing. Namely, a trip to a NATO meeting, the United Kingdom and a closed door private meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin.On Sunday, the President tweeted that the United States’ “foolishness” and “stupidity” were the cause of strained relations with Russia. The Russian government’s official Twitter account retweeted Trump with the message “We agree.”On Monday, after a closed door meeting with Putin in Helsinki, Finland, the President made several remarks in a joint press conference with the Russian leader that drew heavy criticism. The President backed Putin’s very “powerful” denial of any Russian involvement over the United States’ own intelligence agencies evidence of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.Those comments, among others, led political commentators, foes and former allies alike to call his performance “disgusting,” “exceeding the threshold for high crimes & misdemeanors” and to call the President a “traitor.”	Liberal
It’s no secret that President Donald Trump often pillories truth and contradicts himself, so it’s no surprise he doesn’t like having his meetings recorded, as previous presidents have.On Tuesday, a former White House stenographer authored an op-ed in the New York Times detailing why the 45th president is so averse to being on the record.Opinion | I Was a White House Stenographer. Trump Wasnt a Fan. – The New York Times https://t.co/B76cGZeJue— asc (@ascardoso) July 18, 2018Beck Dorey-Stein served as a record-keeper in the White House from 2012-2017, serving both President Barack Obama and Trump in the early days of his presidency. In her op-ed, Dorey-Stein offers a compelling but simple reason Trump doesn’t like being recorded.She asks:“Mr. Trump likes to call anyone who disagrees with him ‘fake news.’ But if hes really the victim of so much inaccurate reporting, why is he so averse to having the facts recorded and transcribed?”Her answer:“Its clear that White House stenographers do not serve his administration, but rather his adversary: the truth.”This does NOT surprise me: @realDonaldTrump does NOT like anyone to record what he says. (HINT: No #ConMan wants his BS to be thrown back at him)#ConManPOTUS @brianstelter @BrianKarem @jeffglor @sarahkendzior @Amy_Siskind #TheList @tonyschwartz @JoeNBC @maddow @MMFlint— SteveBrant (@SteveBrant) July 18, 2018Dorey-Stein also recalled her time working for previous administrations and the respect stenographers were paid for their accurate documentation of what presidents would say.George W. Bush used to call out, ‘I love the stenos!’whenever he saw my boss, Peggy, or her colleagues.Because record keeping catches all his lies!! Too bad we could use his Twitter account and all the new conferences as evidence, and catch all his lies. Convict him of the crimes he and his Nazi friends committed.— DazedAndOriented (@miggy_beezyboy) July 18, 2018A particularly stunning example of Trump’s antipathy toward the truth came last week during his visit to the United Kingdom. In an interview with the British tabloid The Sun, the president trashed Prime Minister Theresa May’s approach to implementing Brexit.Trump claimed May ignored his advice on how to handle negotiations on Britains exit from the European Union, which was approved by voter referendum in 2016. The president said May has gone the opposite way of what he had suggested and that the results have been very unfortunate.She wrecked it” was the overall tenor of the interview.The former White House stenographer has said that the prez wouldnt say, check the transcript. This prez clearly has issues with the truth of ALL KINDS. That is one of the reasons why stenographers exist at all. Thats why people can find them in court houses & the WH..— Fiesty (@candy76_lor) July 18, 2018But just hours later, Trump called reports about the interview “fake news” even though every word he spoke was recorded. Even more perplexing was when he said:Fortunately, we tend to record stories now…we record when we deal with reporters.”Dorey-Stein recalled that as early as “the Monday after Mr. Trumps inauguration,” Trump made it clear that he “doesnt like microphones near his face.When Trump was interviewed by MSNBC’s Lester Holt last year, the same interview in which the president admitted he fired FBI Director James Comey over “the Russia thing,” Dorey-Stein was told by a colleague that she “would not be needed often because ‘there would be video.'”	Liberal
President Donald Trump is still facing fallout from his visit to the United Kingdom.While speaking to the press, Trump claimed that Queen Elizabeth reviewed her honor guard for the first time in 70 yearsall because of him. The president said:We met with the queen, who is absolutely a terrific person, where she reviewed her Honor Guard for the first time in 70 years, they tell me. We walked in front of the Honor Guard and that was very inspiring to see and be with her. And I think the relationship, I can truly say is a good one. But she was very, very inspiring indeed.Like many of Trump’s statements in the past, this was false. In addition to the Queen only having reigned for 66 years, she has reviewed her guard numerous times, including for President Barack Obama in 2011.Many on Twitter were quick to notice.Donald Trump: We met with the Queen, who is absolutely a terrific person, where she reviewed her Honour Guard for the first time in 70 yearsFact check: The Queen has inspected the Guard of Honour numerous times during her reign pic.twitter.com/OYLumcGL1g— Edward Hardy (@EdwardTHardy) July 18, 2018Trump says that when he was in England, the Queen reviewed her honour guard for the first time in 70 years. She became the Queen 66 years ago. And has reviewed a lot of honour guards.— Jon Swaine (@jonswaine) July 17, 2018Has anyone fact-checked @realDonaldTrump claim about the Queen reviewing her honor guard for the first time in 70 years? That would make her 22, but she was 25 when she became monarch.— Mickey Rogers (@misemici) July 17, 2018He lies about easily proven things all the time, plus the queen was not even queen 70 years ago, she became queen in 52 and her coronation was in 53.— Mike McCarron  (@mccarron_mike) July 18, 2018It was far from Trump’s only faux pas with Her Majesty.During the same visit, Trump walked in front of the Queen during their procession, which many saw as a breach of etiquette. In another rather awkward instance, the Queen had to direct Trump on where to walk in their procession.However, the lie is practically comical compared to the recent statements Trump is answering for in regards to his European trip.	Liberal
President Donald Trump stated Tuesday afternoon that he has “a full faith in our intelligence agencies.” But less than 24 hours later, Trump contradicted his own national security advisers again in front of cameras by claiming Russia was no longer targeting the United States.On Monday, Dan Coats, Trump’s hand-pickedDirector of National Intelligence, stated,We have been clear in our assessments of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and their ongoing, pervasive efforts to undermine our democracy.”But Wednesday, in response to the question, “Is Russia still targeting the U.S., Mr. President?” Trump thanked the reporter then said, “No” while looking directly at her. A staffer can be heard in the background trying to get the press to leave the room quickly.Watch the video here.JUST IN: President Trump said “no” when asked by reporters if Russia is still meddling in U.S. elections.Watch more analysis from @kwelkernbc. pic.twitter.com/Z3i8lF7FJg MSNBC (@MSNBC) July 18, 2018In addition to Intelligence Director Coats statements on Monday, on Friday before the President held a private meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin Trump’s National Intelligence head stated,The warning signs are there. The system is blinking. It is why I believe we are at a critical point. Today, the digital infrastructure that serves this country is literally under attack.Coats characterized Russia as the most aggressive foreign actor, no question. They continue their efforts to undermine our democracy.But the President apparently still disagrees with his own country’s intelligence agencies in favor of the word of a foreign dictator. After the meeting with Putin, Trump discredited his own nation’s security forces because the Russian President’s denials of any interference were “powerful.”Wednesday, when asked to clarify his further denial of continued Russian meddling, Trump claimed no President had ever been tougher on Russia than him.“We’re doing very well, and let me tell you, we are doing very well and we are doing very well, probably as well as anybody has ever done with Russia,” Trump began.And there’s been no president ever as tough as I have been on Russia. All you have to do is look at the numbers. Look at what we’ve done.”“Look at sanctions. Look at ambassadors not there. Look at, unfortunately, at what happened in Syria recently.”And I think President Putin knows that better than anybody, certainly a lot better than the media. He understands it and he’s not happy about it and he shouldn’t be happy about it because there’s never been a President as tough on Russia as I have been.”Just the day before this latest denial of Russian involvement in cyber attacks against the United States and attempts to interfere in national politics, the President did damage control for similar statements hemade on Twitter and in Helsinki during a highly criticized press conference with Putin.	Liberal
British and Irish punters “are putting up money 2 to 1” on President Donald Trumps impeachment, according to Lee Price, a spokesman for Paddy Power, a bookmaker that manages betting shops in Britain and Ireland and that runs Irelands largest telephone betting service.What this whole Moscow gruel has taught us is that the Donald is still the biggest ticket in town  and people love to bet on his downfall, Price toldThe Washington Post, noting that the odds that Trump is impeached are now 2 to 1, or 33 percent. That’s a notable change from 4 to 1, or 20 percent, on Monday before a news conference after President Trump’s summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin, during which he sided with Putin over assessments from the United States intelligence community that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election.Given the complexity of the impeachment process, thats an unprecedented price in terms of how short it is, Price said. No president in modern history has had such short odds.As if to underscore that statement, Price said that bets on when Trump would be impeached have been the most popular since he took office in January 2017.Since Trumps inauguration, weve had more bets on his impeachment than weve had on any Brexit market, any U.K. election market, or any of the other 100 or so specials we have on-site about the president.Because gambling laws differ between U.S. states,The Washington Post could not offer a “comparable assessment” of odds stateside.Calls for the president’s impeachment have intensified since he sided with Putin.President Putin says its not Russia. I dont see any reason why it should be, he responded after he was asked if he concurred with the findings of U.S. intelligence agencies that Russian operatives launched unprecedented cyberattacks on the democratic process.Joint Press Conference from Helsinki, Finland: https://t.co/fadLMDuGiY— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018Yesterday, the president walked back that assertion,saying he had misspoken when he appeared to accept Putins denials that Russia interfered.I accept our intelligence communitys conclusion that Russias meddling in the 2016 election took place, Trump said.Could be other people also. A lot of people out there.There was no collusion at all, and people have seen that, and theyve seen that strongly.Trump then claimed that he had intended to say the word would instead of wouldnt when he contradicted U.S. intelligence findings, as when he said, With that being said, all I can do is ask the question. My people came to me, Dan Coats came to me and some others, they said they think its Russia. I have President Putin; he just said its not Russia. I will say this: I dont see any reason why it would be.The sentence should have been, I dont see any reason why it wouldnt be Russia. Sort of a double negative, Trump told reporters. So you can put that in, and I think that probably clarifies things pretty good by itself. I have on numerous occasions noted our intelligence findings that Russians attempted to interfere in our elections.Earlier, the president said his critics suffer from “Trump Derangement Syndrome.”Some people HATE the fact that I got along well with President Putin of Russia. They would rather go to war than see this. Its called Trump Derangement Syndrome!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 18, 2018CNN reports that earlier today, when asked by a reporter whether Russia is still attacking the United States, Trump, “looking directly” at the reporter, replied: “No.”These statements have done nothing to appease the president’s critics, and hashtags like #TreasonousTrump and #TreasonSummit persist.Dear GOP,  Please Misspeak and IMPEACH Trump.Sincerely,Donald Trump… oops, I mean Brian Krassenstein— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) July 18, 2018To everyone rebuking Trump or telling him to change course-He cant. He is a Russian operative.Every single move has been consistent. Putin has compromising Intel on him. You have known this for over a year. Wake up and Impeach him. @GOP— Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) July 17, 2018This isnt about Trump. Hes a phase. This is about a political party that will impeach one man for lying about having extra-marital sex, but gaze vaguely into the distance while another blatantly does something that looks an awful lot like treason.— Michael Marshall Smith (@ememess) July 18, 2018Will someone tell me how to impeach Trump & charge him with treason? I'll do it if no one else steps up.— S. E. Hinton (@se4realhinton) July 17, 2018I believe Donald Trump is a traitor to the United States. Im calling on the House of Representatives to impeach him. #TrumpTreason #ImpeachTrump— Kevin Cook (@lastkrell) July 17, 2018Pressure has mounted on Democrats to push for impeachment proceedings, but Representative Eric Swalwell (D-CA)a member of the House Judiciary Committee, said removing the president from office would be a “premature” effort.I think thats premature at this point  we should do all we can to make sure that hes held accountable, that weconduct the investigations the Republicans have been unwilling to do. Swalwell told Hill.TVs Rising on Monday.“If impeachment is the case, its because we found impenetrable evidence that we take to the American people and will be accepted by both Republicans and Democrats,he added.	Liberal
The Russian Embassy issued a startling tweet on Tuesday, announcing that the Russian Defense Ministry is ready to implement military agreements reached between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki on Monday.The Russian Defense Ministry @MoD_Russia is ready for the practical implementation of agreements in the area of global security reached in Helsinki between Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Donald Trumphttps://t.co/uTtyHgLJ9K pic.twitter.com/PvBwF4KqJD— Russia in USA  (@RusEmbUSA) July 17, 2018The embassy included a link to a longer statement on Facebook:(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v3.0';  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));The Russian Defense Ministry is ready for the practical implementation of agreements in the area of global security…Posted by Embassy of Russia in the USA /     on Tuesday, July 17, 2018The United States National Security Council, however, has yet to confirm which agreements took place between the two leaders.When asked by CNN to elaborate on the agreements, an NSC spokesperson said the council was “still reviewing the discussion.”Because there is no transcript of the closed-door meeting between Putin and Trump, and because the only others present were translators, the agreements the Russian Defense Ministry seems eager to implement are as of yet inaccessible to the public.The Ministry’s spokesman,Major General Igor Konashenkov, told reporters that the ministry isready tointensify contacts withAmerican colleagues atthe level ofthe General Staffs and throughother available channels ofcommunication todiscuss the extension ofthe START treaty, the interaction inSyria, and other topical issues ofmilitary security.It wasn’t until later in the day, at a White House Press Briefing led by Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, that the White House vaguely denied the claims, insisting that there was “some conversation,” but no official agreement.NEW: Sanders says there was "some conversation" between Trump, Putin about possibility of Russia questioning U.S. figures, including former Amb. McFaul, "but there wasn't a commitment made…the president will work with his team and we'll let you know if there's an announcement." pic.twitter.com/yykyNjijlC— ABC News (@ABC) July 18, 2018Democratic lawmakers want to know what was said in that meeting.Chuck Schumer: "Where are the notes from that meeting? What did President [Trump] agree to? Can we have the translator come in and testify? Was Secretary of State Pompeo briefed … ? Did he take notes? … The notes need to be turned over to Congress immediately."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 17, 2018WATCH: I have never seen a day of infamy in terms of foreign policy like I saw the other day with Trump and Putin. The American people deserve answers about what they agreed to in private. pic.twitter.com/qYp9eJdOIx— Senator Bob Menendez (@SenatorMenendez) July 18, 2018Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-N.J.) on Tuesday called for the American translator present during President Trump's private meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin to tell Congress what was said during the encounter.https://t.co/Sj74jVhxz5— Blanche V. Mercaldi (@tammytabby) July 18, 2018Many others took to Twitter to express their outrage.It's frightening that Trump and Putin made some sort of "military agreement" and Russia's defense minister is VERY eager to put that agreement into action. DOD and White House won't comment on what that agreement even is…https://t.co/zL0AZ4FbEd— Alternative NOAA (@altNOAA) July 18, 2018"The National Security Council would not confirm what Trump had agreed to in the one-on-one with Putin."WTF is going on?!!US offers no details as Russia claims Trump and Putin reached military agreements @CNNPolitics https://t.co/mGkwGgnpaZ— Ann MacGibbon (@BostonBoomer) July 18, 2018So Trump and Putin reached military agreements that our own military and officials are clueless about? I'm just going to say WTF and leave it at that…#ImpeachTrump #TraitorTrump #VoteThemOut2018 #TuckFrump— Jeff Peck (@angryshortguy) July 18, 2018What practical implementation? What the hell did Trump agree to? Shouldnt somebody tell the rest of us?— Trumpharmsusall (@trumpharmsusall) July 18, 2018Now Trump and Putin have agreed on some sort of military alliance during a private, two-hour meetinghttps://t.co/2VgLGgzwyq— Sarah Kendzior (@sarahkendzior) July 17, 2018Many are speculating what this agreement could look like.	Liberal
As the American public struggles to process why President Donald Trump came to the defense of Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Russian state television threw cold water on his attempt to walk back his comments refuting Russia’s role in attacking the 2016 presidential election.Julia Davis of russianmediamonitor.comtweeted a translation of Russia 1’s analysis of Trump’s Tuesday reversal, in which the president tried to backpedal remarks he made during a press conference with Putin on Monday.“It’s very simple. First time, he said what he thought,” anchor Sergey Fedorov said on Wednesday morning. “Then he got back to the Oval Office, discovered a hysterical reaction & realized he overdid it.”#Russia's state TV: The Russians scoff at Trump's attempt to "correct" what he said @ the #HelsinkiSummit. Sergey Fedorov: "It's very simple. First time, he said what he thought. Then he got back to the Oval Office, discovered a hysterical reaction & realized he overdid it." pic.twitter.com/W2rotdHFno— Julia Davis (@JuliaDavisNews) July 18, 2018You can watch the Russian broadcast here.Source: https://t.co/Y3De9fCMPS— Julia Davis (@JuliaDavisNews) July 18, 2018When pressed by a reporter if he believed Russia interfered in the 2016 election, Trump said he has faith in the assessments of American intelligence agencies but “doesn’t see why it would be” Russia who hacked the Democratic National Committee and stole voter registration information. Trump added that Putin was “strong and powerful” in his denial of Russian involvement.I will say this: I dont see any reason why it would be. I have great confidence in my intelligence people, but I will tell you that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today.This, of course, was three days after Special Counsel Robert Mueller filed indictments against 12 Russian military intelligence officers for their roles in breaching DNC servers and attempting to disseminate stolen voter registration data, including the DNC’s voter analytics, which campaigns use for targeted ads and voter outreach.On Tuesday, Trump attempted towalk backhis remarks, which have been widely described as treasonous, by claiming he meant to say, I dont see any reason why itwouldntbe Russia.“I have felt very strongly that while Russia’s actions had no impact at all on the outcome of the election, let me be totally clear in saying…that I accept our American intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election took place,” the president said.“Could be other people also, theres a lot of people out there,” he added.If I say something, and you dont like it, just let me know and Ill say I didnt say it.Problem Solving for Dummies— Monica B. D. (@Monibdil) July 18, 2018“The USA is broken,” one person tweeted in response to Davis.I believe what your looking at is the beginning of a sad realisation that the USA is broken and reality comes at you fast when you elect a President who dabbles in the dark arts of wizardry… Enjoy the next 12-24 months….its all y'all have left. #smoke'em-out— charlie (@zippupdown) July 18, 2018Going one step further, another person suggested Mueller subpoena the translator that accompanied Trump to his closed-door meeting with Putin in Helsinki on Monday. No specifics on what the two leaders discussed have been released, aside from generalizations by the president which remain unverified.What did Trump agree to behind closed doors. Subpoena the translater.— Keith Hubble (@kahubble) July 18, 2018Others are trusting the word of Russian propaganda over the president’s, indicating growing skepticism over where the president’s loyalties lie.Russia propaganda actually states the truth for once.— Susana H (@shernansanz) July 18, 2018First time Russia's state media got something right.— Glasnost Gone (@GlasnostGone) July 18, 2018https://twitter.com/Riquelmis/status/1019569825813757954They play him good.— The Punisher's Harp and Guitar (@FranksHarpZone) July 18, 2018https://twitter.com/VTResist/status/1019570273010503680“The Russians don’t believe” Trump either, one person wrote.Russians dont believe him either.— Leenie (@Leenie_1) July 18, 2018Trump’s 180 on Tuesday was met with massive public push-back, especially after NBC News reported that the president was strong-armed by Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo into “clarifying” his stance.	Liberal
President Donald Trump returned to Washington, DC, Monday night after his trip to the United Kingdom and then Helsinki, Finland, for a closed door meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. But damage control for remarks the President made during that trip dominated the agenda on Tuesday.Trump drew harsh criticism for his repeated statements on Twitter and during a highly criticized press conference which earned the hashtag #TreasonSummit against the United States and favoring Russia. But Tuesday he attempted to walkback his remarks, focusing on only one of his many comments, by claiming he was simply confused by the words “would” and “wouldn’t.”Tuesday afternoon, the President attempted to explain everything away by claiming he had “a full faith in our intelligence agencies” immediately after which in a bizarre coincidence the lights briefly went out in the White House. Trump went on to statewhen he said, I dont see any reason why it would be Russia, he actually meant to say, I dont see any reason why it wouldnt be in regards to Russian hacking and interference in the 2016 presidential election.The President’s critics however, were not buying it. And one of those very vocal critics, Trevor Noah, host of Comedy Central’s The Daily Show provided his own spin on Trump’s linguistic confusion excuse.Watch the video here:“After President Trump threw America under the Russian bus, everyone stateside lost their shit and I do mean everyone,” Trevor Noah began his assessment of Trump’s recent trip overseas. “…They all came down hard on Comrade Trump.”Noah then ran a greatest hits of Trump Helsinki meeting criticism, featuring Fox commentator Neil Cavuto calling the President’s performance “disgusting” and remarks made by his fellow Republicans, Senator John McCain, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and Arnold Schwarzenegger.“President Trump is no stranger to criticism, said Noah, “but it’s not often that even his closest allies slam his actions.”So just like after Trump praised the Charlottesville Nazis, today, the President was forced to come out and pretend to believe something different than what he said.”“And I don’t know if you guys believe in omens, but watch happens,” Noah said before showing footage of the lights going out during Trump’s walk back briefing with the press.Noah then pointed out the President’s body language after the lights came back on, noting the President asked if everyone was okay, but had gone from an open posture to hugging himself in the moments the lights were out.“But that was insane,” Noah continued.Trump tried to claim he believes the intelligence agencies and then the lights went off. It’s like even electricity is tired of Trump’s bullshit.”After a joke about gravity eventually being done with Trump some day too, Noah proposed the White House has a special version of the infamous product, the Clapper, installed. But instead of clapping to turn lights on and off, Trump lies.“Okay, so just like Trump’s presidency, today’s press event got off to a horrible start,” Noah continued then showed footage of the President’s remarks.	Liberal
Former FBI Director James Comey is urging Americans to support Democrats and vote Republicans out of power in the November midterms, tweeting on Tuesday that “all who believe in this countrys values must vote for Democrats this fall.”Comey, a lifelong Republican, said Republicans have abandoned the ideal established by the Founders – that Ambition must … counteract ambition.This Republican Congress has proven incapable of fulfilling the Founders design that Ambition must … counteract ambition. All who believe in this countrys values must vote for Democrats this fall. Policy differences dont matter right now. History has its eyes on us.— James Comey (@Comey) July 18, 2018The final line of his tweet, “history has its eyes on us,” is borrowed from the musical,Hamilton. It comes fromHistory Has Its Eyes On You,a number sung by George Washington, Alexander Hamilton, and the ensemble.The chorus, “history has its eyes on you,” speaks to the idea that the outcome of our actions are not defined in the present, and that the impact of what we do in life will be judged by future generations.The ambition Comey mentioned refers to President Donald Trump and his self-serving bromance with Russian President Vladimir Putin, to whom Trump has conceded any and all accountability for the attack on the 2016 presidential election.They said they think its Russia; I have President Putin, he just said its notRussia, Trump told reporters as he stood just six feet from Putin. I will say this: I dont see any reason why it would be. I have great confidence in my intelligence people, but I will tell you that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today.On Tuesday, Trump attempted to walk back his remarks, which have been widely described as “treasonous,” by claiming he meant to say, “I don’t see any reason why itwouldn’t be Russia.”“I accept our intelligence community’s conclusion that Russias meddling in the 2016 election took place,” the president added. “It could be other people also,” Trump said, despite there being no evidence whatsoever indicating anyone but Russia was involved in the attack on our election.Some on Twitter hit back at Comey with memes about Hillary Clinton’s emails. Just days before the 2016 election, Comey announced the investigation into Clinton’s private email server had been reopened, which many believe cost Clinton the election.Yes, history has its eyes on us and you will be judged as a man who broke with protocol to wrongfully attack the first female candidate for president against the advice of your boss.— Nell Scovell (@NellSco) July 18, 2018 pic.twitter.com/7vqosduIxe— SaveOurCountry (@BershodM) July 18, 2018 pic.twitter.com/mFZ2HJixET— \7H3__W1Z4RD// (@_7H3_W1Z4RD_) July 18, 2018Others agreed with the former FBI director, who was fired by Trump in May 2017.History will remember those Republicans who step over political lines for the good of this country, as heroes.  Be a hero!  Get these corrupt, Trump followers out of office. Hold him accountable!— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) July 18, 2018POTUS lacks the insight into diplomacy and the courage to stand up to dictators. Whether he colluded or collaborated is not the point. He does not represent the values of this country and undermines our standing in the world! GOP are complicit. VOTE THEM OUT!— (((Howard Forman))) (@thehowie) July 18, 2018Trump “stood on foreign soil next to a murderous lying thug and refused to back his own country,” Comey tweeted on Monday.This was the day an American president stood on foreign soil next to a murderous lying thug and refused to back his own country.  Patriots need to stand up and reject the behavior of this president.— James Comey (@Comey) July 16, 2018 pic.twitter.com/ZvfZrsbB15— BlueVotr (@BlueVotr) July 18, 2018Twitter voiced its support for the FBI in response to Comey’s tweet, citing Trump’s relentless attacks on the bureau and other American intelligence agencies.	Liberal
President Donald Trump was asked on MSNBC yesterday how he would hold Russia accountable after a newreportfrom Dutch investigators revealed that Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot downby a Russian-made rocket and warhead. His response was to once again ignore the findings of United States intelligence agencies, which believe“with confidence” that pro-Russian separatists shot the plane down.Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, aBoeing 777, was en route to Kuala Lumpur from Amsterdam when it was shot down over rebel-held territory in eastern Ukraine onJuly 17, 2014. Russia has continued to deny any involvement in the attack, whichkilled all 283 passengers and 15 crew on board. The U.S. intelligence community hasin conjunction with the Dutch Safety Board, which spearheaded the investigation into the crashconcluded since 2014that Russia had supplied the rocket to pro-Russian insurgents, and that these insurgents likely targeted the plane in error. In May, Dutch and Australian investigators were able to tie the missile battery directly to Russian military.The president, rather than stand by this assessment, chose to contradict it.“They say it wasn’t them,” Trump said. “It may have been their weapon, but they didn’t use it, they didn’t fire it, they even said the other side fired it to blame them. I mean to be honest with you, you’ll probably never know for sure.”He continued:I think it is horrible.But they’re saying it wasn’t them. The other side says it is them. And we’re going to go through that arguing for probably for 50 years and nobody is ever going to know. Probably was Russia.It’s a long ways away. We have to get back to making America great again.It’s terrible, but we really probably won’t know for sure. And you’ll probably never find out. There are only a few people that know. And you know one of them could be (Russian President Vladimir) Putin, frankly, and we know one thing: He’s not going to be talking about it.Trump’s remarks earned a harsh rebuke from Australians Anthony Maslin and Rin Norris, who lost their three children, Mo, Evie and Otis, and Norris’ father in the crash.Maslin took to Facebook to criticize Trump’s response, saying that he has chosen to ignore “irrefutable facts,” a pattern of behavior most widely seen when he condemns news reports critical of him and his administration as “fake news.”Mr Trump, you invented and speak a lot about “fake news. But lets[sic] try talking about something thats[sic] not fake lets[sic] call them irrefutable facts.That passenger flight MH17 was shot out of the sky and 298 innocent people were murdered is an irrefutable fact.That the plane was hit by a Russian missile has been proven to be an irrefutable fact.That this killed our 3 beautiful children and their grandfather, and destroyed our life and many other lives in the process, is an irrefutable fact.That this happened 4 years ago today is an irrefutable fact.That the man whose arse youve just been kissing did this, and continues to lie about it, is an irrefutable fact.Maslin concluded that Trump, who has been criticized for insensitivity following major tragedies such as the mass shootings in Parkland and at the headquarters of Maryland’sCapital Gazette newspaper, has “no empathy for [your] fellow man”:So you dont need to look it up, irrefutable means impossible to deny or disprove.It’s not anger that I feel towards the two of you, its something much, much worse.It’s pity.You have no empathy for your fellow man, and you clearly have no idea what love is.So you have nothing.Norris, in a separate post on her own Facebook account, called Trump and Putin “a couple of bullies” and wrote a poetic ode to her children and“The trauma of a loss so cataclysmic that it singled us out of all Australians, and made us different”:I tell my story here to confront that fear. To show the world who I am. I am Grief. This is me. Grief is me. To look at me is to see your own fear reflected back at you. To look at me is to also see strength. The strength of us all. All of those who stand behind me. The strength of my fathers and grandmothers. An ancient strength. The strength of my land. My land of burnt umber and dry sand. The strength of laterite and million year old tears. The strength of the broken who rebuilt.What do you see when you look at the bully?Austalian newspapers have also criticized President Trump for his response. The Sydney Morning Herald,in an editorial titled “Trump’s silence on MH17 betrays Australia,”wrote that the country’s Foreign Minister Julie Bishop had asked for “U.S. help to persuade Mr. Putin to cooperate.”	Liberal
Tuesday, President Donald Trump attempted to walk back his disparaging remarks both on Twitter Sunday and in Helsinki Monday about the United States in general and U.S. intelligence agencies in particular. But after stating he had “a full faith in our intelligence agencies,” the lights at the White House dimmed and then went out.Some online claim it is karmic retribution.While others are claiming divine intervention.Did you like it when the lights went out on him? That was Me. God (@TheTweetOfGod) July 17, 2018Trump began by stating to the assembled reporters,Let me begin by saying that once again, full faith and support for Americas intelligence agencies. I have a full faith in our intelligence agencies.”The lights just went out on Trump as he was saying he has “full faith” in the country’s intelligence agencies pic.twitter.com/vrFHdp4sn4 jordan (@JordanUhl) July 17, 2018“Whoops, they just turned off the light. That must be the intelligence agencies,” the President mocked.While the cause is likely far more earthbound and electrical, Trump is by no means alone in making light of the timing of the mini-blackout.Some of the jokes are a bit more pointed than others, however.As @RealDonaldTrump said he has full faith and support in American intelligence agencies, the lights in the Cabinet Room went out. God knows he is lying. #TrumpLIESMatter rolandsmartin (@rolandsmartin) July 17, 2018The lights just went out during Trumps speech. GOD I hope that was the X-Men visiting. David Blue (@DavidBlue) July 17, 2018And my favorite moment of that taped statement is when the lights went out as he sat and lied while committing treason #ImpeachTrump Tara Dublin Hates Traitors (@taradublinrocks) July 17, 2018WATCH: Lights go out as Trump mentions intelligence agencies.Im gonna choose to believe the CIA just put his traitor ass on notice. pic.twitter.com/OUU5diuz58 Rogue CPI (@RogueCPI) July 17, 2018Its funny how the lights went out right when Trump started his Russia lying today. Even the WH ghosts are calling him on his bullsh*t! Sierra Johnson (@SierraJohnson_1) July 17, 2018Small potatoes, Lord.You can Do Better.Be Best! Hannah’s Meemaw #ThisIsNotNormal (@HMeemaw) July 17, 2018Some pointed out the President’s body language.Yall, watch @realDonaldTrumps body language when the lights went out as he mentioned intelligence agencies.It FREAKED HIM OUT. https://t.co/wA2KYX32WD Chely Wright (@chelywright) July 17, 2018GUESS TRUMP GOT SCARED WHEN THE LIGHTS WENT OUT! Where were you when the lights went out?! He asks EVERYBODY OK? WHY WOULDNT THEY BE?! No, we are not okay….as long as you running USA! NANCY ASK (@NANCYASK1) July 17, 2018But that timing…	Liberal
In the wake of President Donald Trump’s disastrous meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday, calls for Jon Huntsman, who currently serves as Trump’s Ambassador to Russia, to resign resounded on Twitter.@JonHuntsman Resign, if you have any honor.— John Weaver (@JWGOP) July 16, 2018How can Jon Huntsman not resign immediately after that Trump-Putin presser?— Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) July 16, 2018We will see if her father, @JonHuntsman agrees, and does the right thing by resigning in protest. https://t.co/eLm9mXjmPD— VoteVets (@votevets) July 16, 2018But now Huntsman’s hometown newspaper, The Salt Lake Tribune, which is owned by Huntsman’s brother Paul, has joined the fray, having published a blistering Op-Edtitled “Ambassador Huntsman, Your Country Needs You.”In it columnist Robert Gehrke does not mince words:“You work for a pawn, not a president…Its time to come home.”Column in the Salt Lake Tribune, owned by the Huntsman family: "Ambassador Huntsman, you work for a pawn, not a president. It's time to come home. There is no other reasonable course of action." https://t.co/NQrALoSKo3— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 17, 2018Gehrke said that after Trump’s “disgraceful” display of capitulation to Putin in Helsinki, “there is no other reasonable course of action” than for Huntsman to resign his post.This is bad. His own family.— Federico Alves (@federicoalves) July 17, 2018Gehrke noted that although the people of Utah were “stunned” when Huntsman agreed to serve in the Trump administration out of a “deep sense of duty,” the ambassador should not continue to work for apresident who “doesnt share your values, or American values, for that matter.”Resigning would send a message to Trump that a president “who attacks our allies, gives comfort to our adversaries and undermines our moral standing, our commitment to democratic ideals and our interest in human rights” will not be tolerated, Gehrke wrote.Standing next to Putin during a press conference on Monday, Trump accepted Putin’s word that Russia did not interfere in the 2016 presidential election despite the unanimous conclusions of every single American intelligence agency.I have great confidence in my intelligence people, Trump said. But I will tell you that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today.On Sunday, Huntsman attempted to downplay the significance of the encounter between Trump and Putin.This isnt a summit, Huntsman told Chuck Todd onMeet the Press. Its a meeting.ICYMI: U.S. Amb. to Russia Jon Huntsman says the Trump-Putin meeting "isnt a summit" #MTP #IfItsSunday@jonhuntsman: "You don't know what's going to come out of this meeting" with Putin pic.twitter.com/zBNam7bg12— Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) July 16, 2018Gehrke called Trump’s words a “disservice to the U.S. intelligence community, those diplomats who work in your office, and the integrity of our democracy and justice system.”I remember when this guy/Salt Lake Tribune newspaper made the same  plea/claim when Huntsman was ambassador to China under Obama.  Oh wait…— Sandra T (@sandtats) July 17, 2018Gehrke also cited Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s ongoing probe into the Russian attack on our election, adding that “no rational person can seriously question Russian involvement.” Mueller has issued more than 100 indictments against more than two dozen Russians and five Trump associates in the course of his year-long probe.Huntsman’s role as chief emissary to Russia is undermined, Gehrke opines, because neither Trump or Putin is a “rational person.”	Liberal
Twenty-four hours after standing beside Russian President Vladimir V. Putin and saying that he doesn’t see “why [the meddling of the U.S. election] would be” from Russia, President Donald Trump is walking back his earlier statements and acknowledged that Russia meddled with the U.S. Then, in a pattern that’s become rather typical of Trump’s concessions, he appeared to contradict himself in the same breath:Could be other people also, theres a lot of people out there.His excuse for the “I don’t see why it would be” is just as startling. The president now says that he meant to say “I don’t see why itwouldn’tbe.” It’s an error that he says “should have been obvious.”To be clear, Trump still seemed to waffle in his acceptance of U.S. intelligence: "I accept our intelligence community's conclusion that Russia's meddling in the 2016 election took place. Could be other people also. A lot of people out there." (via ABC) pic.twitter.com/Gp4hzEbZBc— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 17, 2018The president continued:I have felt very strongly that while Russia’s actions had no impact at all on the outcome of the election, let me be totally clear in saying…that I accept our American intelligence communitys conclusion that Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election took place.The president did not elaborate on why it took him 24 hours to realize he allegedly misspoke, nor did he mention why he defended his initial words with multiple tweets or an interview with his favorite so-called journalist Fox News’ Sean Hannity.Americans on social media were too outraged to let him off easy.President Trumps attempt to walk back the dangerous, disgraceful & damaging show of his Blame America First policy embarrasses our nation even further. After watching the President cower in front of Putin, the American people now deserve to know what Trump will do now.— Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) July 17, 2018I just dont buy the Presidents comments today. If he wanted to take a stand on Russian election interference, he should have had the strength to do it in front of Vladimir Putin.— Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) July 17, 2018Trump looks punch drunk today while he walks back his stupid Putin summit. Plus he is still talking like an eighth grader. Trumps insults our allies and kisses Putin's butt. Yet, Trump is still puking "no collusion" at every turn. Oh yea, and it's Obama's fault.— Sally Mullikin (@SallyAMullikin) July 17, 2018Even if Trump walks back every single thing he said today, he has proven that when in a room with Vladimir Putin, he is frightened and submissive. Trump lost his credibility today, even as a bully.— Wendy Wasserman Schultz (@dvorakoelling) July 16, 2018The arrogance of this man and his handlers. To think that we will believe this tripe shows no respect for the American people, our allies, and elected officials. Its transparent, disengenuous and facetious. Deeply cynical.— Adam Supe (@switchedon323) July 17, 2018Its amazing how small & weak this reveals him to actually be. This should have been corrected immediately yesterday & it should have been corrected in front of Putin directly. 24 hours later is too little too late. Congress needs to do something about this now. #TrumpTreason https://t.co/YZUcgRHrfc— Maggie Hibbs (@maggie_hibbs) July 17, 2018The president did not explicitly apologize for the uproar that resulted from what he says was a simple case of misspeaking.	Liberal
In the 1960s, the U.S. saw a few bras burned  although this was not the widespread phenomenon some seem to think. Nonetheless, the link between flaming underwear and protest is well established. This message was not lost on the public last month, when the president of the Czech Republic staged a bizarre publicity stunt in which he lit a giant pair of red underpants on fire.In June, President Milos Zeman called a surprise news conference at Prague Castle. After the press and other spectators gathered, Zeman asked his chancellor to bring out the underwear. Vratislav Mynar unfolded a massive pair of red boxer shorts and presented them with dignity to firefighters standing nearby. They then proceeded to carefully and responsibly light them on fire. What may have looked like a lighthearted publicity stunt was actually a dark message to the presidents critics.In 2015, the artist collective Ztohoven, an anonymous band of about 20 performance artists who make statements about society and politics using performance art, had created a video featuring a pair of huge red undies to criticize Zeman. The group took down the Czech flag flying over Prague Castle and replaced it with a huge red pair of red underpants. The group also released an accompanying poem about Zeman, whomthey have calledthe “man who is not ashamed.” Zeman is a populist figure who is open about his China- andRussia-friendlypositions, and has spoutedanti-immigrant rhetoric. In the poem, the group said the underwear symbolized the red Chinese flag, as well as embarrassment and rage, and as the underwear fluttered in the wind, it exposed the buttocks of the country. The stunt, seen as an anti-fascist protest, was met with mild criticism by the Zeman administration at the time. However, almost three years later, he was moved to respond.Guerrilla art is on the rise as social and political tensions increase around the world. In Connecticut, gallery owner Fernando Louis Alvarezplaced a giant sculpture of a bent spoon in front of the headquarters of Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin. He was arrested and charged with obstruction of free passage, a criminal misdemeanor.The 800-pound steel spoon was displayed for two hours before police had it removed. The work, by artist Domenic Esposito, represents the spoons used by heroin addicts. Esposito created it to protest how his family was affected by his brother Dannys nearly 14-year addiction to heroin, which began with OxyContin and Percocet, and called on the government to do something about the problem, beginning with its source.The spoon has always been an albatross for my family. Its kind of an emotional symbol, a dark symbol for me, said Esposito.In California, three guerrilla art activists from the groupIndecline changeda billboard in Emeryville to protest the Trump administration’s separation of migrant families. They changed a “We make junk disappear” billboard to read “We make kids disappear.” Instead of the 1-800 Got Junk number, the activists repainted the words, “I.C.E.”A message on the groups Twitter account displayed the altered billboard with the message, This isnt an immigration issue. Its a humanitarian crisis.	Liberal
With heightened national turmoil involving the current resident of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue after President Donald Trump met privately with Vladimir Putin, many are looking to the man a recent poll cited as the President who has “done the best job” in their lifetime for words of wisdom. And President Barack Obama delivered.President Obama spoke in Johannesburg, South Africa, Tuesday in a ceremony commemorating the100th anniversary of Nelson Mandelas birth. While he failed to mention anyone by name, his message seemed pointed and clear.While much of his speech drew laughter, there were some important messages contained within about facts versus lies and love versus hate.Video highlights from the nearly 90 minute speech can be viewed within this article.Obama began his speech by characterizing the world as living in “strange and uncertain times” where “each days news cycle is bringing more head-spinning and disturbing headlines.”President Obama in South Africa: We’re living in “strange and uncertain times” with “each day’s news cycles bringing more head-spinning and disturbing headlines.” pic.twitter.com/yum9ENPCVc Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018He then spoke of the bigotry that still plagues the world…President Obama in South Africa: It is a plain fact that racial discrimination still exists in both the United States and South Africa.” pic.twitter.com/zu4RwJa9KS Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018…as well as economic inequality.President Obama in South Africa: “There has been an explosion in economic inequality. A few dozen individuals control the same amount of wealth as the poorest half of humanity. (Video via @andrewkimmel of BuzzFeed) pic.twitter.com/vBs00FiD6J Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018President Obama in South Africa: Right now Im actually surprised by how much money I got…[but] theres only so much you can eat, theres only so big a house you can have, theres only so many nice trips you can take. pic.twitter.com/A7DRGLbedx Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018“Look around,” Obama then suggested. “Strongman politics are ascendant suddenly, whereby elections and some pretense of democracy are maintained, the form of it, but those in power seek to undermine every institution or norm that gives democracy meaning.”President Obama in South Africa: “Look around: strongman politics are ascendant…whereby elections and some pretense of democracy are maintained…but those in power seek to undermine every institution or norm that gives democracy meaning.” pic.twitter.com/L9xyRonCY6 Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018The former President also touched on the value of diversity as well as the commonality of shared hopes and dreams.President Obama in South Africa: If you doubt the value of our diversity, just ask the French football team that just won the World Cup, because not all of those folks looked like Gauls to me. But they’re French! pic.twitter.com/xo6LzqNQqu Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018And in a very pointed segment seemingly aimed at the Trump administration and their supporters, the former President took a jab at those who reject the truth and facts. Obama highlighted the differences between opinions, which can be discussed, and the rejection of truth, which leaves no room for discussion.He stated,If I say this is a podium and you say this is an elephant, its going to be hard for us to cooperate.”President Obama in South Africa: You have to believe in facts. If I say this is a podium and you say this is an elephant, its going to be hard for us to cooperate. pic.twitter.com/ubbbG04EbG Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018Obama further called out the current presidential administration for lying, then being caught in lies, only to lie more about the lies.Too much of politics today seems to reject the very concept of objective truth. People just make stuff up…we see the utter loss of shame among political leaders where they’re caught in a lie and they just double down.”President Obama in South Africa : “Too much of politics today seems to reject the very concept of objective truth. People just make stuff up…we see the utter loss of shame among political leaders where they’re caught in a lie and they just double down.” pic.twitter.com/iG8zsljs5i Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018The 44th President concluded his remarks with a call to reject hate and embrace love, stating,Madiba reminds us that no one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin…People must learn to hate. And if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love.”President Obama concludes remarks in South Africa: “Madiba reminds us that no one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin…People must learn to hate. And if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love. pic.twitter.com/SJT3KzAvqE Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) July 17, 2018Reaction online included many messages with one general message. People miss President Obama.I miss sentences! Avery-y Hill -h (@AverillHuxter) July 17, 2018As a Canadian, Obamas speech has given a sense of hope for the world. I wish every American could have witnessed this intelligent and compassionate person on the world stage to once again feel a sense of pride and hope. #ObamaInKenya #Believe Deborah Richards (@drichards60) July 17, 2018Damn, I miss that man!! Rice Krispy Tweets (@kristirice47) July 17, 2018pic.twitter.com/Q5lHgo7GXl Mark Henick (@markhenick) July 17, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump has been on the receiving end of heated criticism since his highly contentious summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki on Monday.Hashtags like #TreasonSummit and #TreasonousTrump have trended widely amid calls for Congress to draft articles of impeachment once President Trump sided with Putin over the assessment from his own intelligence agencies that Russian operatives meddled in the 2016 presidential election.But these angered reactions only represent the tumultuous political landscape stateside. If you were to ask Russia’s Foreign Ministry how the summit went, you’d hear that it went as smoothly as it could have. In fact, according to Sergey Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, the meeting between the two world leaders went fabulously and better than super.Lavrov’s response appears to support much of the reaction from the president’s critics, who’ve said that President Trump kowtowed to Russian aggression. The Russian Foreign Ministry’s response to the president’s statements also support the accusations that Russiaand Putin in particularbenefited enormously from the closed-door face-to-face meeting.For example, after President Trump tweeted that the relationship between Russia and the United States “has NEVER been worse”he blamed “U.S. foolishness and stupidity” and Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian collusionmany members of the media noted that the Russian Foreign Ministry “liked” the president’s tweet.Our relationship with Russia has NEVER been worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now, the Rigged Witch Hunt!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018The Russian Foreign Ministry liked the presidents tweet, in which Mr.  Trump blamed *the U.S.* for poor U.S.-Russia relations, and faulted *the investigation* into the Russian cyberattack on the U.S. rather than the Russian cyberattack itself. pic.twitter.com/xL2wcFlbfO— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) July 16, 2018Russia's foreign ministry just liked a Trump tweet mentioning "Witch Hunt"— Michelle Kosinski (@MichLKosinski) July 16, 2018Even more damning: The Russian Foreign Ministry retweeted the president’s tweet, saying “We agree.”https://twitter.com/mfa_russia/status/1018803468805566464Critics have called the retweet a win for Russian propaganda, and a calculated effort to undermine Robert Mueller’s investigation.When the Russian Foreign Ministry is handed an opportunity for a massive propaganda victory, they will always take it. Having spent my entire professional life studying Russia & most of my career serving in Europe, Im surprised at how many theyve been given in just 1 week. https://t.co/svjGjz1QIl— Mark Hertling (@MarkHertling) July 16, 2018Russias foreign ministry doesnt have to call the United States foolish and stupid, or call the investigation into Russias interference in American elections a witch hunt  just retweet the President of the United States when he does. https://t.co/6B18B448Ad— Willie Geist (@WillieGeist) July 16, 2018Russia's foreign ministry – and Russian media today are thrilled, absolutely thrilled that President Trump is trashing the United States pic.twitter.com/KUWO0jGJ5F— West Wing Reports (@WestWingReport) July 16, 2018The president, meanwhile, has only doubled down on his assertions that his talk with Putin was “productive.”A productive dialogue is not only good for the United States and good for Russia, but it is good for the world. #HELSINKI2018 pic.twitter.com/Q2Y1PhM9au— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018He has also found time to once again criticize the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), which he (falsely) claimed was draining (and relying too heavily on) the U.S. because of monetary obligations. Statements like the one below have haunted the president, who is aware of Russia’s longstanding goal to delegitimize NATO and its allies.I had a great meeting with NATO. They have paid $33 Billion more and will pay hundreds of Billions of Dollars more in the future, only because of me. NATO was weak, but now it is strong again (bad for Russia). The media only says I was rude to leaders, never mentions the money!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 17, 2018But regardless of where the president claims to stand on NATO, he feels his meeting with Putin was “even better” than his NATO commitments. That it hasn’t been as well received as he would like is a signin yet another attack on the mediathat “the Fake News is going Crazy!”While I had a great meeting with NATO, raising vast amounts of money, I had an even better meeting with Vladimir Putin of Russia. Sadly, it is not being reported that way – the Fake News is going Crazy!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 17, 2018According toMaria Lipman, editor-in-chief of the journal Counterpoint and a veteran commentator on Russia, the Trump-Putin summit realized the Kremlin’s goal of ending an era of frosty relations with the United States.Putin has demonstrated that Russia is not isolated, without making any concessions, she said, adding thatPutin in a sense lures him into this rhetoric that its better to cooperate than to engage in confrontation.” The two leaders, she noted, appeared to be “playing along together.”	Liberal
As the fallout from President Donald Trump’s Monday press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin continues to spread, some Republican lawmakers appear to have reached their limit on Trump’s coddling of dictators and undermining of American intelligence agencies.On Tuesday, Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), once a staunch supporter of the president, issued a blistering rebuke of Trump on Twitter that reads as if it were written by the Democrats.“The dam is finally breaking. Thankfully,” Corker wrote. “As the president taxes Americans with tariffs, he pushes away our allies and further strengthens Putin.”The dam is finally breaking. Thankfully. As the president taxes Americans with tariffs, he pushes away our allies and further strengthens Putin. It is time for Congress to step up and take back our authorities. We have legislation to do that. Lets vote.— Senator Bob Corker (@SenBobCorker) July 17, 2018Corker’s call for legislation is vague but may be related to tariffs Trump imposed on imported steel and aluminum this spring. Under the Constitution, the power to levy taxes lies with Congress.In June, Corker introduced a bill to give Congress the authority to approve tariffs enacted by the president “under the auspices of national security,” which Trump used as an excuse to tax imports from American trading allies.The bill was sponsored by a bi-partisan group of nine Senators from both political parties. Corker’s tweet may indicate a new push to get the Senate to vote on the measure, which would serve as a check on Trump’s risky approaches to trade.Trump urged Corker and Republicans to “back off,” claiming the legislation would limit his ability to negotiate.Its a difference of opinion, Corker said. He [Trump] feels that this takes away his negotiating ability, and this in no way takes away his negotiating ability. Its not any different from him meeting with Kim Jong Un, and, if they reach a deal, him bringing it to the Congress for approval. Ive explained its exactly the same thing.Hes obviously not pleased with this effort, the Senator added. We had a heartfelt conversation. Finally, a lot of time had gone by, and I had other meetings.Twitter followers chimed in with their thoughts and were mostly in agreement with Corker’s tweet.Get your fellow republicans on board before it is too late!— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) July 17, 2018About time, Senator.  You didn't see this mess coming?— Henry Ehrlich (@AACMaven) July 17, 2018Maintain this spine, Senator. Tweeting isnt legislating.— The Hoarse Whisperer (@HoarseWisperer) July 17, 2018One user, who claims to be a lifelong Republican, has had enough and plans to vote “straight Democrat” in November’s midterms.@SenBobCorker I have been a Republican my whole life…back when it meant something different. My plan is to vote straight Democrat in November because of the current Republicans in Congress… make me want to change my mind… #TheResistance #ImpeachTrump— Roseyella (@roseyella2000) July 17, 2018Others called for Corker to leave the GOP, which he could do consequence-free. Corker is retiring from the Senate at the end of his current term, and with the Senate split 51-49, Corker defecting from Republicans could make all the difference in passing a law that can rein in Trump.Senator, respectfully, the Majority Leader will never allow that. Have we reached the point when you and Sen Flake, who have nothing to lose, declare independence, hand the gavel to Sen Schumer, and allow hearings? You can still block liberal legislation. Save our republic, sir.— Andrew Vahrenkamp (@drew_vkamp) July 17, 2018The Senate is split 51-49. Two defectors from the GOP caucus bring the whole thing to a grinding halt. You're not even running for re-election. Why are you still caucusing with the @SenateGOP?— New Colossus (@New_Colossus_) July 17, 2018With McCain sidelined for health, it's really 50-49. Senator Corker COULD be the man people read about in history books of the future, as the one who saved democracy. Or he'll fade into obscurity. His choice.— Licked by Pumba (@ShadySpotlight) July 17, 2018Excellent point. The one Republican senator that flips will be written in the history books as the saviour of our nation. Will it be you @SenBobCorker ?— elise pearlie (@elise_pearlie) July 17, 2018https://twitter.com/radioradiation/status/1019251023158788096Some, however, expressed doubts over whether Republicans will take any meaningful action to check Trump’s flagrant abuse of power.This will last for maybe a few hours. Then back to business as usual.— Greg Ellner (@GregoryEllner) July 17, 2018The redirect has already begun by RNC chair, Saying to look at economy etc…— Jerry Roberts (@Volfan1982) July 17, 2018Could impeachment be on the table? It’s unlikely, but that isn’t quelling calls for it.There some articles of impeachment sitting in the House…maybe they could come up for a vote?— Eric Garland (@ericgarland) July 17, 2018Corker’s Tuesday tweet is the latest example of his dissent against the president. On Monday, the Tennessee Republican said Trump’s refusal to hold Putin accountable for interfering in the 2016 presidential election made the U.S. look like a “pushover.”“Everyone whos dealt with Putin understands fully that the best way to deal with him is through strength, and I just felt like the presidents comments made us look as a nation more like a pushover,” Corker, who chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,told reporters in Washington.I did not think this was a good moment for our country.”“I think this was a very good day for President Putin,” he added.	Liberal
TheDaily Newsis no stranger to visually arresting covers, nor is it shy in its criticism of President Donald Trump. Its latest cover invokes both.It depicts Trump holding hands with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Fifth Avenue as the President of the United States shoots Uncle Sam in the head..@realdonaldtrump derides reports with which he disagrees as fake news, then buys the Russian narrative hook, line, sinker, pole and boat. https://t.co/TGHurpVDKy An early look at Tuesday's front… pic.twitter.com/BXsoZsIT4B— New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) July 16, 2018If Trump shooting someone on Fifth Avenue sounds familiar, it should, it’s a call back toTrump’s own words during the 2016 campaign:“I could stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose voters.”The Daily News has resurrected the Fifth Avenue quote one day after Trump and Putin’s calamitous joint press conference in Helsinki. When Trump was asked if he would denounce Putin and warn him never to order an attack on American democracy again, Trump sided with Putin against his own intelligence agencies, saying he didn’t “see why it would be” Russia who committed the attacks.Users on social media felt the parallel between Trump’s quote and the disastrous press conference was on point:Just stunning to watch Fox tonight, as hosts and guests trash Trump and Putin. This could be the turning point we've all been waiting for these past 18 months. Trump shot his supporters on Fifth Avenue today.— Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 16, 2018Trump is standing in the middle of fifth avenue and shooting Uncle Sam.  #TreasonSummit— I am SHE (@jjphyllis) July 16, 2018What was that Trump said about shooting someone in he middle of Fifth Avenue?#TreasonSummitt pic.twitter.com/XmMbNoGPrE— Chris Wall (@cwall1221) July 16, 2018#Trump shot the proverbial person on Fifth Avenue, but it was not in #NYC, rather the American people in #HelsinkiSummit on behalf of his pimp #Putin.#TrumpTreason pic.twitter.com/ywhHE0ijyb— Dr. David Romei (@DavidRomeiPHD) July 17, 2018During the campaign, was his remark about him killing someone on Fifth Avenue and getting away with it innuendo for what happened yesterday?— Norma Cunningham (@N_Middleburg) July 17, 2018The image of the president shooting Uncle Sam is particularly stunning for another reason.	Liberal
An unnamed White House source is claiming President Donald Trump ignored the advice given to him by his advisors ahead of his press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland on Monday.Trump’s comments at the media event were very much counter to the plan, the source said.Very much counter to the plan: How Trump ended up ignoring his advisers and embracing Putin https://t.co/H4a60OafKi— Washington Post (@washingtonpost) July 17, 2018The president was given nearly 100 pages of briefing materials prior to his meeting with Putin, according to reporting from the Washington Post.A second person familiar with the preparations said “everyone around Trump” had expected the president to have reviewed the information and take a tough stance against Putin on issues like election meddling and the annexation of Crimea, Ukraine.The person said Trump “made a game-time decision” to blame the United States for the decline in American-Russian relations.Wake up America!  America first could quickly become America last.— Francois Messier (@Messier1505) July 17, 2018I think that the United States has been foolish, Trump said of tensions between the two nations. I think weve all been foolish. We shouldve had this dialogue a long time ago; a long time, frankly, before I got to office.One senior White House official revealed Trump held several briefing sessions prior to his meeting with Putin but chose to ignore his advisors and briefing materials.This was especially apparent in the president’s remarks about Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election.When asked by a reporter if he believed Russia attacked our election, Trump acknowledged the unanimous conclusions of American intelligence agencies but sided with Putin, who Trump said was “strong and powerful in his denial.”They said they think its Russia; I have President Putin, he just said its notRussia, Trump told reporters as he stood just six feet from Putin. I will say this: I dont see any reason why it would be. I have great confidence in my intelligence people, but I will tell you that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today.Fact Checker:  The facts missing from Trump and Putins news conference https://t.co/M3GlFyC6Xz— Post Politics (@postpolitics) July 17, 2018The president has been more reluctant than most to weigh into the idea that Russia did it and theyre still doing it, said Senator Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.).He felt that would undermine his own election.Putin even admittedhe wanted Trump to win the election, though he maintained his denial of having anything to with attempts to disrupt America democracy.Trump’s off-script performance included regurgitating conspiracy theories about a supposed missing hacked DNC server and Hillary Clinton’s emails.Where are those servers? Trump asked. Where are Hillary Clintons emails?Trump then reminded everybody that he beat Clinton in the 2016 race, fueling speculation over whether his denial of Russian election interference is a projection of his own insecurity about his legitimacy as president.“I beat Hillary Clinton easily … We won that race,” Trump boasted. “And its a shame that there can even be a little bit of a cloud over it … We ran a brilliant campaign and thats why Im president.At one point, Putin gifted Trump with a soccer ball, which critics said could be bugged.Finally, if it were me, Id check the soccer ball for listening devices and never allow it in the White House.— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) July 16, 2018Putin's soccer ball gift to Trump may be bugged, or worse  and the US may never know https://t.co/vCuNzLNQAQ— Business Insider (@businessinsider) July 17, 2018Putin’s soccer ball gift to Trump may be bugged, or worse  and the US may never know https://t.co/TjvUgFoJLB pic.twitter.com/cNqUInPLe2 Analytics News (@analyticsprnews) July 17, 2018But according to the Post, six White House officials came forward to discuss the events leading up to Monday’s Trump-Putin fiasco. Sources said Trump’s strange behavior began over the weekend while the president played golf at his resort in Turnberry, Scotland.	Liberal
Monday, President Donald Trump joined Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland, for a closed door meeting. In the lead up to the meeting, the U.S. President faced heavy criticism for a tweet blaming the United States’ “foolishness” and “stupidity” for poor relations with Russia.The tweet faced further scrutiny when the Russian government official English language Twitter account retweeted Trump’s post under their own comment of “We agree.”Then, after holding his private one on one meeting with Putin, the President again faced stern rebukes for his remarks during a joint press conference. The hashtag #TreasonSummit trended heavily on social media in the wake of the press conference.And online resources Dictionary.com and their sister site Thesaurus.com decided to help out.In a series of tweets, Dictionary.com offered some helpful words for the President and United States citizens in the aftermath of the Helsinki meeting.Patriot: A person who loves, supports, and defends his or her country and its interests with devotion.Traitor: A person who commits treason by betraying his or her country.https://t.co/Keq4fhTlRB Dictionary.com (@Dictionarycom) July 16, 2018Responsible means “answerable or accountable, as for something within one’s power, control, or management.”Behold the use of responsible in this sentence: President Trump says he holds both the U.S. and Russia responsible for the latter attacking the former’s election. https://t.co/q3na1TP05z Dictionary.com (@Dictionarycom) July 16, 2018No stranger to the https://t.co/EoMLt7nGp1 trending list, John Brennan has done it again.Searches for “imbecilic” are !https://t.co/QIWXmMVTlU https://t.co/yQhcaIkcz2 Dictionary.com (@Dictionarycom) July 16, 2018Quisling: A person who betrays his or her own country by aiding an invading enemy, often serving later in a puppet government. #NothingLikeAGosling #OrADucklinghttps://t.co/QRmYtXicSK Dictionary.com (@Dictionarycom) July 17, 2018Denial: An assertion that something said, believed, alleged, etc., is false.Also denial: Disbelief in the existence or reality of a thing.https://t.co/1r4oDV7GZi https://t.co/7BFR3ZFdZe Dictionary.com (@Dictionarycom) July 17, 2018Not to be outdone, Thesaurus.com offered their linguistic assistance as well.Disaster is one word. Calamity, catastrophe, debacle and fiasco are four other ways to say the same thing. #TrumpPutin #Synonyms https://t.co/aQBhYBS89L https://t.co/uef1S7huTA Thesaurus.com (@thesauruscom) July 16, 2018Rat and fink are synonyms of one another, and yet they’re often put together to form one word: Ratfink. https://t.co/zZfPVIsaQg Thesaurus.com (@thesauruscom) July 17, 2018This is not the first time either Twitter account has sought to help the President, his supporters like Roy Moore or the public dealing with them, out.	Liberal
TheNew York Times is facing a significant backlash from the LGBTQ community after avideo, titled“Trump and Putin: A Love Story,”was posted to their website.The video, advocates contend, reduces President Donald Trump’s relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin to little more than a gay joke rather than the flagrant abuse of power and threat to democracy that itparticularly after the president sided with Putin over the assessment from his own intelligence agencies that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential electiongenuinely is.In this episode of Trump Bites, Donald Trumps not-so-secret admiration for Vladimir Putin plays out in a teenagers bedroom, where the fantasies of this forbidden romance come to life. https://t.co/cWeQMuzWUz pic.twitter.com/4shBRkloot— NYT Opinion (@nytopinion) July 16, 2018Many have taken the newspaper to task for its cartoon, which they believe is homophobic. One of them is Brian Sims, a gay Pennsylvania Congressman. Sims slammed theTimes for “equating the love that countless people across the planet fight and die for to the unconscionably criminal relationship” between Trump and Putin.@nytimes this isnt just intensely stupid, its homophobic as all hell. What on Earth makes you think that equating the love that countless people across the planet fight and die for to the unconscionably criminal relationship between these two is OK?! Truly, please explain. https://t.co/Cs1TYOJ4Lp— Brian Sims (@BrianSimsPA) July 16, 2018Sims continued, pointing out that both leaders have used their power and influence to take away LGBTQ rights; indeed, President Trump has indicated that his Supreme Court nominations will give the nation’s highest court a partisan bent which places landmark rulings likeObergefell v. Hodgeswhich made marriage equality the law of the landat significant risk of being overturned; Putin, meanwhile, has allowed Russia’s “gay propaganda” rule to flourish under his rule and has imprisoned LGBTQ activists for speaking out.This is ridiculous bullshit! Millions of LGBTQ people around this world risk their lives for love and these two schmucks use their power to take our rights, elevate those that hate us, and allow crimes against us but @nytimes thinks we should be the butt of this joke?! Gross.— Brian Sims (@BrianSimsPA) July 16, 2018According to social media user Nick Amadeo, “homophobic taunting” is used against the two world leaders “to put both of them down and emasculate them,” a sign that publications like theNew York Times still see homosexuality as shameful.My thoughts on this, since Twitter doesnt give me enough space to voice my reaction. If youre going to resort to homophobia as a way to criticize Trump (who deserves a lot of criticism right now) then youre going to lose my support pic.twitter.com/G9MFkeABvX— Nick Amadeo (@NixtonV) July 16, 2018Others weighed in with similar thoughts.Trump is a puppet. Putin is the puppeteer. This is not a love story.— TP (@TYPNNY) July 17, 2018The NYT resorts to crude homophobic propaganda to attack the US president. Yes, this is the state of US journalism right now. Shame on the NYT.— Polly Tickal (@PollyTickal) July 17, 2018Seriously? Mock @POTUS & #Putin for who they are, how they act, what they say. Hey – do a short highlighting 2 flying assholes. But homophobic satire are two words that shouldnt go together…— Steve Levy (@LevyRecruits) July 16, 2018This fiction detracts from the damning truth. It demeans journalism and @TNYTimes rather than the subjects who deserve our condemnation.— Sunni (@SunniWestbrook) July 17, 2018TheTimes video is a response to statements President Trump made during a press conference after meeting with Putin in the Finnish capital of Helsinki. Trump, who has often demeaned the intelligence community and has insisted that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian election interference is little more than a partisan “witch hunt,” said he doesn’t “see any reason” why Russia would have meddled in the 2016 presidential election.President Putin says its not Russia. I dont see any reason why it should be, he responded after he was asked if he concurred with the findings of U.S. intelligence agencies that Russian operatives launched unprecedented cyberattacks on the democratic process.Joint Press Conference from Helsinki, Finland: https://t.co/fadLMDuGiY— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018The press conference dominated the news cycle. This was quite the feat, particularly when Trumps earlier comments undermining the European Unionhe named the E.U. when askedto identify his biggest foe globally right nowexacerbated tensions during an already chaotic week for international diplomacy.When asked to identify his "biggest foe globally right now," President Trump told @jeffglor the European Union is a foe of the U.S. The president also said Russia is a foe in certain respects and China is a "foe economically. https://t.co/Npe9S4uLuh pic.twitter.com/oHDpY4HrK2— CBS News (@CBSNews) July 15, 2018The president’s comments are especially alarming givenwhat weve learned from an indictment that the Justice Department released Friday afternoon. The indictmentrevealsthat,in 2016, Russian operatives attempted to hack Hillary Clintons private email serverthe same day that Trump infamously requested that the Russians do just that.The indictment details that on or about July 27, 2016, the Conspirators attempted after hours to spearphishfor the first time email accounts at a domain hosted by a third-party provider and used by Clintons personal office.July 27, 2016, Trump: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing."Indictment: That evening, Russian operatives targeted Clinton campaign emails "for the first time." pic.twitter.com/fanyaAxwfJ— Christopher Ingraham (@_cingraham) July 13, 2018Putin, for his part,described the Helsinki meeting as candid and useful.When asked to elaborate on whether tensions between the U.S. and Russiatensions which have only heightened since Moscow invaded Ukraine and annexed Crimea in 2014would ease, Putin appeared optimistic.President Trumps position on Crimea is well known. He talks about the illegality of the Crimean reintegration to Russia. We have another point of view that a referendum was held in accordance with international law. For us, its a closed question, he said.	Liberal
U.S. Ambassador to Russia Jon Huntsman said Monday’s meeting between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin isn’t a “summit” because it’s the first time the two leaders are having a private conversation.ICYMI: U.S. Amb. to Russia Jon Huntsman says the Trump-Putin meeting "isnt a summit" #MTP #IfItsSunday@jonhuntsman: "You don't know what's going to come out of this meeting" with Putin pic.twitter.com/zBNam7bg12— Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) July 16, 2018Trump tweeted on Sunday he was “looking forward” to meetingPutin and “no matter how well I do at the summit,” it won’t be good enough for his critics.Heading to Helsinki, Finland  looking forward to meeting with President Putin tomorrow. Unfortunately, no matter how well I do at the Summit, if I was given the great city of Moscow as retribution for all of the sins and evils committed by Russia…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 15, 2018The president then referred to the media as “the enemy of the people” and blamed Democrats for obstructing his agenda.…over the years, I would return to criticism that it wasnt good enough  that I should have gotten Saint Petersburg in addition! Much of our news media is indeed the enemy of the people and all the Dems…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 15, 2018…know how to do is resist and obstruct! This is why there is such hatred and dissension in our country  but at some point, it will heal!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 15, 2018Putin also called the meeting a summit.POTUS: it's just informalHuntsman: it's just a meetingBolton: it's not a summitPutin: pic.twitter.com/IGyznr159k— Molly McKew (@MollyMcKew) July 16, 2018Huntsman was asked by Chuck Todd onMeet the Press why the “meeting” doesn’t qualify as a summit. “This isn’t a summit,” Huntsman replied. “It’s a meeting.”The ambassador recounted instances in which Trump and Putin had met in the past but emphasized that Monday’s meeting is the “first time for both presidents to actually sit across the table and have a conversation.”Todd then questioned if Huntsman hesitates to use the word “summit” because “we don’t have an agenda” or “deliverables,” referencing previous comments by Huntsman indicating both items are necessary for a summit.Huntsman explained there is “no state dinner, no joint statement, no deliverables that are gonna be pre-packaged.”“You don’t know what’s going to come out of this meeting.”Huntsman added that the two leaders sitting down together is a start to a dialogue, which will include discussions about “meddling in the election” and issues in which “we have some shared interests.”“You gotta remember that Russia is a country of 11 time zones. It touches Asia, it touches the Middle East, it touches western Europe,” Huntsman said. “It’s inconceivable that we can solve some of the international issues without engaging Russia on some level.”Huntsman noted there is “no trust in the relationship” between the United States and Russia and Monday’s meeting is an attempt to “diffuse” and “take some of the danger” out of the relationship.	Liberal
While many have been critical of President Donald Trump’s closed door meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin and the press conference after it his number 2 guy, Vice President Mike Pence, is not among them.Speaking at the United States Commerce Department today, Pence gave a very different version of Trump’s Russian agenda.JUST IN: VP Pence offers a rose-colored view of Trump’s Putin summit: “What the world saw, what the American people saw, is that President Donald Trump will always put the prosperity and security of America first.” Peter Alexander (@PeterAlexander) July 16, 2018A considerable amount of the criticism the President received involves his perceived loyalty to Russia and Putin over his allegiance to the United States. Some, like former CIA Director John Brennanand former Congressman Joe Walsh, went so far as to call Trump’s actions and statements treasonous.However according to Pence, the President is always acting in the best interests of the United States. Nowhere, according to the Vice President, was that more evident than during Trump’s Russia visit.During his Commerce Department remarks, Pence stated:Disagreements between our countries were discussed at length, but what the world saw, what the American people saw, is that Pres. Trump will always put the prosperity and security of America first.”NEW: Vice Pres. Pence praises Trump-Putin summit: “Disagreements between our countries were discussed at length, but what the world saw, what the American people saw, is that Pres. Trump will always put the prosperity and security of America first.” https://t.co/BGEvf7xJjk pic.twitter.com/n5sFYlwKk8 World News Tonight (@ABCWorldNews) July 16, 2018Pence also stated:And the truth is, over the last week, the world saw once again that President Trump stands without apology as the leader of the free world.”Our @POTUS is now on his way home from a historic trip to Europe. And the truth is, over the last week, the world saw once again that President Trump stands without apology as the leader of the free world. pic.twitter.com/rjnCd7xpls Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) July 16, 2018The Vice President’s remarks garnered considerable pushback online.	Liberal
Russian President Vladimir Putin admitted he wanted Donald Trump to be elected president during a press conference following a private meeting the two leaders held on Monday in Helsinki, Finland.Asked by a reporter if he wanted Trump to win and if he directed anyone to ensure it happened, Putin said:“Yes, yes I did… because he talked about bringing the U.S.-Russia relationship back to normal.”CRAZY UNREAL!Question to Putin: Did you want Trump to win the election & did you direct any of  your officials to help him do that? Putin: "Yes, I did. Yes, I did. Because he talked about bringing the US / Russia relationship back to normal"Putin admits it!#Treason pic.twitter.com/Qflb5rs2FS— RiotWomenn (@riotwomennn) July 16, 2018Putin’s remarks were preceded by denials of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.I feel a physical sickness, Putin has won, mission accomplished – Trump Denies Election Interference, Putin Says He Wanted Trump To Win In 2016 – https://t.co/gvdLPX5uU8— Clint Watts (@selectedwisdom) July 16, 2018Both Trump and Putin refuted conclusions by all 17 American intelligence agencies that Russia mounted a massive cyber campaign to influence American voters in favor of Trump."Yes, I did." That was Putin's response when asked directly if he wanted Trump to win the 2016 election, adding that Trump expressed a desire to improve U.S.-Russian relations https://t.co/weQLHtk0w8 #Helsinki2018 pic.twitter.com/ynYe39GLW1— Bloomberg Politics (@bpolitics) July 16, 2018Russian intelligence operatives also hacked the DNC and accessed voter registration information, actions for which 12 Russian nationals were criminally indicted on Friday.Banner headline on RT's website right now: "I WANTED TRUMP TO WIN – PUTIN"— Gabriel Debenedetti (@gdebenedetti) July 16, 2018“I don’t see any reason why” Russia would interfere in our election, Trump said. Putin also said his country would never meddle in an American election.TRUMP: I don't see any reason why Russia would have interfered in 2016 presidential election.PUTIN: Yes, I wanted him to win, because he was talking about normalizing the relationship between Russia and the U.S.''— Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) July 16, 2018Reactions on social media were swift, but people weren’t surprised.Trump said in Helsinki that he sees no reason Putin wouldve wanted to mess with our 2016 presidential election. Gimme a break. Putin offered the obvious reason at the same presser when he admitted that he wanted Trump to win the US presidency.— Laurence Tribe (@tribelaw) July 16, 2018Since well before the election, Trump has repeatedly argued that he Russia wanted Clinton to win.Today, we get the answer straight from Putin himself."Did you want Donald Trump to win?" @jeffmason1 of Reuters asks.Putin: "Yes I did."— Jeff Zeleny (@jeffzeleny) July 16, 2018Of course he did – so does that mean @POTUS will believe it now that #PutinSaidSo over every single #USAIntelligence agency #DoBetter— K Shier (@Kesbug) July 16, 2018But Trump told us Putin wanted Hillary to win! Yeah riiiiigghht! She was spot-on about EVERYTHING on Trump #PutinsPuppet— EU Queen. #FBPE (@VeeCee30) July 16, 2018Yup Putin admits it because they have another plan in place and they arent worried at all. This is not a good sign— nicole (@NicoleVedEnvy) July 16, 2018Putin has his puppet.— Quontreece Thompson (@QuontreeceThom5) July 16, 2018Last summer, Trump said Putin wanted to see Hillary Clinton elected president, claiming she would have weakened our military, which would make Russia happy.I guess the boys will just have to agree to disagree…https://t.co/mhXVIFfyi0— Tomer (@TomerElk) July 16, 2018We are the most powerful country in the world and we are getting more and more powerful because Im a big military person. As an example, if Hillary had won, our military would be decimated, Trump said.Trump went on to say he wanted a strong military, therefore Russia wouldn’t have wanted him to get elected.Thats why I say, why would he want me? Because from day one I wanted a strong military, he doesnt want to see that.	Liberal
The United States is reeling after another bombshell moment from President Donald Trump’s chaotic European visit. The latest instance occurred at the president’s joint press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin when Trump refused to denounce Putin directly for the Russian cyber attacks on the United States’ democracy. Now, former CIA director John Brennan is calling the president’s performance at the press conference “nothing short of treasonous.”Donald Trumps press conference performance in Helsinki rises to & exceeds the threshold of high crimes & misdemeanors. It was nothing short of treasonous. Not only were Trumps comments imbecilic, he is wholly in the pocket of Putin. Republican Patriots: Where are you???— John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) July 16, 2018His words come after Trump was asked if he would denounce Putin’s actions and “warn him to never do it again.” Instead of condemning the cyber attacks that all United States intelligence agencies agree originated from the Russian government, Trump refused to say that he believed his own intelligence agencies over Vladimir Putin. Instead, he talked about Hillary Clinton’s emails and said:But I have — I have confidence in both parties. I — I really believe that this will probably go on for a while, but I don’t think it can go on without finding out what happened to the server. What happened to the servers of the Pakistani gentleman that worked on the DNC? Where are those servers? They’re missing; where are they? What happened to Hillary Clinton’s e-mails? 33,000 e-mails gone — just gone. I think in Russia they wouldn’t be gone so easily. I think it’s a disgrace that we can’t get Hillary Clinton’s 33,000 e-mails.So I have great confidence in my intelligence people, but I will tell you that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today.The president even went on to float the possibility of collaborating with the Russian military to see if they hacked the 2016 presidential election:And what he did is an incredible offer. He offered to have the people working on the case come and work with their investigators with respect to the 12 people. I think that’s an incredible offer. OK?The reception of Trump’s performance has been, by and large, negative. Many are siding with John Brennan: when will the GOP stand up for our country?— Amy  (@amynorthgeorgia) July 16, 2018This press conference is an absolute disgrace. Trump won't even side with America.What Trump did today was commit treason. He cannot be supported anymore. He is a clear & present danger to America. Republicans can no longer be quiet.I won't be quiet. I am done with him.— Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) July 16, 2018Call to arms. We are under attack by our President. pic.twitter.com/KsMpApxCFK— Arron Hears Trump Elected (@VictoriaVanHor7) July 16, 2018"My people came to me…they said they think it's Russia. I have President Putin. He just said it's not Russia. I will say this, I don't see any reason why it would be."–TrumpThat's how a press conference sounds when an Asset stands next to his Handler.— Michael Steele (@MichaelSteele) July 16, 2018In this extraordinary press conference, Trump and Putin and teaming up against the entire American intelligence and law enforcement communitiesThis is a propaganda victory for Russia of historic proportions— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) July 16, 2018Though a sitting United States President siding with aggressors over Americans is what many are calling historic, it will be the reaction of the president’s own Republican party that determines whether this moment is epochal enough to turn the tides.	Liberal
Reactions to the joint press conference Monday between Russian President Vladimir Putin and United States President Donald Trump are very favorablein Russia. The majority of the rest of the world sees things a bit differently.Nowhere is the reaction stronger than in the United States and things are not looking good for the 45th President on the homefront. Political foes and one-time friends alike are publicly criticizing the U.S. Commander in Chief.And Fox Broadcasting, a long-time fan and proponent of the President, rebuked Trump as well.On Fox Business channel,anchor and commentator Neil Cavuto characterized the President’s remarks during his news conference with President Putin as “disgusting.” Cavuto was acting as host on his program Cavuto Coast to Coast.Neil Cavuto of Fox Business calls Trump’s press conference “disgusting”, “That sets us back a lot.” pic.twitter.com/R2ZIjyFyPR Axios (@axios) July 16, 2018Cavuto’s guest, Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General Tom Dupree, appeared on the program to discuss Trump’s meeting with Putin and the joint press conference. Dupree stated he was disappointed President Trump missed an opportunity to be more aggressive and tell Putin he would be punished for his state sponsored election interference and to “never think aboutdoing that again.”After Dupress spoke, Cavuto states:But he didn’t and that’s what made it disgusting. That’s what made his performance disgusting. I’m sorry, it’s just the only way I feel. It’s not a right or left thing for me, it’s just wrong.“A U.S. President on foreign soil talking to our biggest enemy or adversary or competitor or I don’t know how we define them these days is essentially letting the guy get away with this and not even, ya know, offering a mild criticism.”That set us back a lot.”In the full interview, posted by Cavuto on his Twitter feed, the theme remains the same.Neil and Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General Tom Dupree discuss today’s #TrumpPutinSummit: pic.twitter.com/xY7XGumxQD Neil Cavuto (@TeamCavuto) July 16, 2018According to Dupree and Cavuto, the President should have confronted Putin on his government’s interference into the 2016 presidential elections and, Trump’s failure to do so reflects very poorly on the President’s claims of no cooperation or collusion between his campaign and the Russian government.And people online are agreeing with that assessment.	Liberal
Shortly after President Donald Trump sided with Russian President Vladimir Putin over claims of interference in the 2016 presidential election, former Congressman Joe Walsh announced that he’d officially broken away from the man whose presidency he’d once so fervently supported.“I cannot & will not support a traitor,” Walsh wrote in a message posted to his Twitter account.Trump was a traitor today. I cannot & will not support a traitor. No decent American should.— Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) July 16, 2018Although Walsh had criticized President Trump a fair amount in recent months, it was a startling about-face for a man who once called for armed insurrection in the event Trump lost the presidential election to Hillary Clinton, his Democratic opponent.On November 8th, I'm voting for Trump.On November 9th, if Trump loses, I'm grabbing my musket.You in?— Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) October 26, 2016President Trump issued his statements after face-to-face talks with Putin in the Finnish capital of Helsinki.“President Putin says it’s not Russia. I don’t see any reason why it should be,” he responded after he was asked if he concurred with the findings of U.S. intelligence agencies that Russian operatives launched unprecedented cyberattacks on the democratic process.Joint Press Conference from Helsinki, Finland: https://t.co/fadLMDuGiY— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018The news blindsided other members of the Republican Party, including Senators Jeff Flake (AZ) and Lindsey Graham (S.C.).I never thought I would see the day when our American President would stand on the stage with the Russian President and place blame on the United States for Russian aggression. This is shameful.— Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) July 16, 2018Missed opportunity by President Trump to firmly hold Russia accountable for 2016 meddling and deliver a strong warning regarding future elections.  This answer by President Trump will be seen by Russia as a sign of weakness and create far more problems than it solves. (1/3)— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) July 16, 2018Former CIA Director John Brennan, one of the president’s more impassioned critics, said the press conference “exceeds the threshold of ‘high crimes & misdemeanors.'”Donald Trumps press conference performance in Helsinki rises to & exceeds the threshold of high crimes & misdemeanors. It was nothing short of treasonous. Not only were Trumps comments imbecilic, he is wholly in the pocket of Putin. Republican Patriots: Where are you???— John O. Brennan (@JohnBrennan) July 16, 2018The press conference dominated the news cycle. This was quite the feat, particularly when Trump’s earlier comments undermining the European Unionhe named the E.U. when askedto identify his biggest foe globally right now”exacerbated tensions during an already chaotic week for international diplomacy.When asked to identify his "biggest foe globally right now," President Trump told @jeffglor the European Union is a foe of the U.S. The president also said Russia is a foe in certain respects and China is a "foe economically. https://t.co/Npe9S4uLuh pic.twitter.com/oHDpY4HrK2— CBS News (@CBSNews) July 15, 2018Although President Trump has often insisted that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s federal investigation is a “witch hunt” and that he is the target of a partisan smear campaign orchestrated by Democrats, his commentsparticularly after his hotly contested meeting with Putinare especially jarring given what weve learned from an indictment that the Justice Department released Friday afternoon. The indictmentrevealsthat,in 2016, Russian operatives attempted to hack Hillary Clintons private email serverthe same day that Trump infamously requested that the Russians do just that.The indictment details that on or about July 27, 2016, the Conspirators attempted after hours to spearphishfor the first time email accounts at a domain hosted by a third-party provider and used by Clintons personal office.July 27, 2016, Trump: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing."Indictment: That evening, Russian operatives targeted Clinton campaign emails "for the first time." pic.twitter.com/fanyaAxwfJ— Christopher Ingraham (@_cingraham) July 13, 2018In announcing that the Justice Departmentcharged 12 Russian intelligence officers with offenses related to the hacking of the Democratic National Committees emails, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to, as NPRnotes, unite against foreign influence in the American democratic process.In my remarks, I have not identified the victims, Rosenstein said. When we confront foreign interference in American elections, it is important for us to avoid thinking politically as Republicans or Democrats and instead to think patriotically as Americans. Our response must not depend on who was victimized.	Liberal
Tony Schwartz, the ghostwriter of President Donald Trump’s 1987 bookThe Art of The Deal took to CNN on Monday determined to warn the country of what he believes Trump’s trajectory will be.Schwartz was given access to Trump for eighteen months in order to write a flattering portrait of the now-president forThe Art of the Deal, but has since become one of Trump’s most fervent opponents. He warned on CNN that because of Trump, the country is in a true state of emergency.When asked by CNN’s Brian Stelter if Trump seemed to be applying the principles ofThe Art of the Dealto his European tour, Schwartz replied:I’m seeing him apply the Roy Cohn version ofArt of the Dealwhich is pound, demand, insist, and say the same thing over and over again on the assumption that at a certain point people will collapse and accept what you said even if it’s not true.With such focus on Trump’s perception globally, it seems the president is doubling down on his most famous positions. He said that NATO allies weren’t paying enough, that Brexit wasn’t soft enough, called CNN fake news before refusing to take a question from the network, and just before his much-anticipated summit with Putin in Finland, Trump blamed the United States for strained relationships with Russia. This comes days after an explosive indictment from Inspector General Rod Rosenstein revealed that twelve hackers working for the Russian military implemented an immense cyber attack on the United States’ elections.Our relationship with Russia has NEVER been worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now, the Rigged Witch Hunt!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018Trump’s unyielding admiration for Putin is alarming many across social media.Russian Military very recently attacked America. That is a fact.— Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) July 16, 2018HEADLINES: Trump declines to criticize Putin in defense of US government interests. Putin criticizes Trump (for exiting Iran deal) and does not deny having compromising material on Trump— John Harwood (@JohnJHarwood) July 16, 2018Wow. Trump, the president of the United States, is refusing to side with the US intelligence community and believes Putin on the issue of election interference.Trump is a Russian asset.— Denizcan Grimes (@MrFilmkritik) July 16, 2018trump going straight up full blown traitor now. He's too close to his prescious meeting with Putin to pretend even a little. He's over the moon with dreams of being alone with Putin.He's hoping Vlad will help him become a dictator.— Annabelle   (@AndreaTobias8) July 16, 2018This isn’t the first time that Schwartz has warned against Trump and his ties to Putin.	Liberal
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton took a jab at President Donald Trump ahead of his Monday meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, using Twitter to question the president’s loyalty to the United States in the hours before he attends a closed-door meeting with Putin in Helsinki, Finland.In a Sunday evening tweet, Clinton asked Trump: “do you know which team you play for?”Great World Cup. Question for President Trump as he meets Putin: Do you know which team you play for?— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 16, 2018As if proving Clinton’s point, Trump took to Twitter hours later and blamed the United States for rising tensions between the U.S. and Russia.Our relationship with Russia has NEVER been worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now, the Rigged Witch Hunt!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018Twitter users agreed with Clinton’s point.“Trump is on team Russia,” one user wrote.Trump is on team Russia.  Absolutely no doubt.— B. Janine Morison (@bjaninemorison) July 16, 2018“He does,” wrote one user. “And it isn’t team USA.”He does, and it isn't Team USA.— Greta (@gemmasmom) July 16, 2018And another asked Clinton if she’d be watching the “treason summit.”Will you be watching the #treasonsummit tomorrow?— marlaine selip (@mselip) July 16, 2018One follower pointed out that five Trump associates have been either indicted or have pleaded guilty to crimes uncovered by Mueller’s investigation.https://twitter.com/feelmyserena/status/1018852430052757504Clinton “got more votes…without Vladimir Putin.”Never forget, @realDonaldTrump : Hillary Clinton got more votes, and she did it without Vladimir Putin.— Dr. DaShanne Stokes (@DaShanneStokes) July 16, 2018https://twitter.com/SusandDominguez/status/1018844296710148101 #ImWithHer— Alice Donlan (@alicedonlan) July 16, 2018And getting more votes didn’t require “Russian propaganda.”Hillary Clinton left State in 2013 with 69% approval.She left 11 hours of Benghazi testimony unscathed.She left her convention with a double-digit lead.She left three presidential debates as the overwhelming victor.But she was "flawed."That's Russian propaganda. pic.twitter.com/Jvs66Jbdum— Hillary Warned Helsinki (@HillaryWarnedUs) July 16, 2018Others said Trump would cancel the summit if he cared about American interests.If Trump played for Team America, he would have canceled the summit. Instead hes in Helsinki desperately trying to gain admittance into Putins organized crime network. That is, if hes not already a member.#TreasonSummit— @kim (@kim) July 16, 2018If Putin hacked the election to help @HillaryClinton and she was having this meeting, the @GOP would be attacking her left and right. Instead, they are SILENT about @RealDonaldTrump as he attacks our allies and does their bidding. This is grotesque.— rolandsmartin (@rolandsmartin) July 16, 2018Clinton’s charge that Russia wanted a “puppet” for president wasn’t forgottenNot only is #TrumpBaby SCARED, #TraitorTrump is mad that a woman, ESPECIALLY Hillary Clinton, PROVED she IS smarter than him, & she proved she was 100% correct about everything! Right Down to #Trump being a #PutinPuppet #TreasonSummit #TrumpRussia #CountryOverParty #PutinTrump pic.twitter.com/63q3V4NDUL ?????Trisha Mott????? (@Trishamott) July 16, 2018	Liberal
The day before his highly criticized closed door meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, President Donald Trump tweeted to defend Russia against the real enemy. And who is the villain in Russo-American relations?According to Trump, it is the United States.On Sunday, the United States President tweeted this message:Our relationship with Russia has NEVER been worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now, the Rigged Witch Hunt!”Our relationship with Russia has NEVER been worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now, the Rigged Witch Hunt! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 16, 2018And at least one Twitter account agrees fully with the President’s assessment on the reasons for tensions between the the United States and Russia: MFA Russia ????.In response to Trump’s tweet, they retweeted it with their concurrence, simply stating “We agree.”We agree https://t.co/7l087Qwmj3 MFA Russia ???? (@mfa_russia) July 16, 2018But who does this agreement come from?The account description reads “Official twitter-account of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia.” It is, in fact, the verified official English voice of the Russian government on Twitter.It is no secret that Trump is a great fan of Putin. He praises the Russian leader often publicly, despite the criticism his allegiance to Putin creates for him.I’d say you have a great relationship with a lying, murderous, dictator who directly attacked our democracy.Do you salute Putin or just kiss him?#TreasonSummit pic.twitter.com/2cVqUUclev Michael McKinley (@mickmackseattle) July 16, 2018During a recent rally in Great Falls, Montana, Trump stated despite what any of our allies, other members of the United States government or National Security advisers say Putin is “fine.” The moment was caught on video and drew further criticism for the President’s failure to acknowledge the facts of Russian aggression against the world.But aside from the Russian government agreeing with him, the President is receiving considerable pushback on his claims of United States “foolishness” and “stupidity”. A breakdown of the tensions between the United States government and other governments around the world and the government of President Vladimir Putin paints a different picture.People on Twitter are providing lists of the actions taken by the Putin government that led to Russia’s expulsion from the G7, expulsion of Russian diplomats by U.S. allies, and sanctions placed against the Russian government.The relationship w/ Russia is bad because:1. Putin is a dictator;2. Russia invaded the Ukraine;3. Russia annexed Crimea;4. Putin murders journalists who aren’t loyal to him;5. Russia poisoned ppl on foreign soil;6. Russia attacked the U.S. in 2016 & continues to do so Michele Martindill (@Docsociology4) July 16, 2018Dont forget the murder of innocents aboard a commercial Malaysian airliner. Scott Freak (@daddy0kcmo) July 16, 2018and Smolensk !!!! Polish President and 95 officials was killed during their flight to Smolensk on April 10, 2010 ! Ala Nowak (@AlaNowakB) July 16, 2018Yep, our relationship with Russia has never been worse because of their fake elections, aggression in Ukraine and Crimea, Syria, killing people in their own country and others, interfering and hacking our elections, and treatment of the press and dissidents. Thank you for 1/ Cyndy Stachowiak (@CyndyStachowiak) July 16, 2018giving Russia a free pass with all your tweets and remarks against the DOJ and the free press, reluctance to enforce sanctions, refusal to address interference in our elections. All this for a nation whose GDP is less than the state of Texas. #TreasonSummit #FoolOnTheHill Cyndy Stachowiak (@CyndyStachowiak) July 16, 2018The relationship has “NEVER been worse” Because Russia, knowingly and with malicious intent attacked and continues to attack our democratic systems….…..with *YOUR* encouragementResign.#MAGA Grove Street (@Grove_Street2x) July 16, 2018And invaded their neighbor, and shot down a passenger plane, and poisoned several people in the UK, and propped up a butcher in Syria… Ian (@alkalinian) July 16, 2018People are also taking issue with the President’s repeated use of the term witch hunt to describe an investigation into the interference by a foreign government during the 2016 presidential election.	Liberal
Mere days before his highly contentious meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, President Donald Trump named the European Union, which comprises some of the United States’ closest allies, when asked to identify his “biggest foe globally right now.”Trump made the comments duringan interview with “CBS Evening News” anchor Jeff Glor in Scotland on Saturday while at his golf club in Turnberry, Scotland.His complete statements are as follows:Well, I think we have a lot of foes. I think the European Union is a foe, what they do to us in trade. Now, you wouldn’t think of the European Union, but they’re a foe. Russia is foe in certain respects. China is a foe economically, certainly they are a foe. But that doesn’t mean they are bad. It doesn’t mean anything. It means that they are competitive.He added: “I respect the leaders of those countries. But, in a trade sense, they’ve really taken advantage of us and many of those countries are in NATO and they weren’t paying their bills.”When asked to identify his "biggest foe globally right now," President Trump told @jeffglor the European Union is a foe of the U.S. The president also said Russia is a foe in certain respects and China is a "foe economically. https://t.co/Npe9S4uLuh pic.twitter.com/oHDpY4HrK2— CBS News (@CBSNews) July 15, 2018The president’s comments opened him up to a firestorm of criticism from Democrats, Republicans, and political commentators alike.The 71 year-old man baby, loathed the world over, called the European Union a foe.I beg to differ. The United States biggest foe right now, is Donald Trump. https://t.co/Obx6rLHuxw— Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) July 15, 2018BREAKING:  Donald Trump says I think we have a lot of foes. I think the European Union is a foe. I just hope he doesn't know what "foe" means. Please just be stupidity rather than him attacking our staunchest allies on the eve of a meeting with an enemy. UNBELIEVABLE!!— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) July 15, 2018The President of the United States listed the European Union as a foe before getting to Russia and China. This is more than uninformedits frightening. Our system of alliances has kept us safe and stable for decades and Trump is undermining them. https://t.co/EJ3kU6jz0b— Renato Mariotti (@renato_mariotti) July 15, 20182/ Now Trumpwho betrayed America while abroad by taking the side of hostile foreign soldiers against innocent American civilianshas declared the European Union America's foremost enemy. There's no way any American can justify that sort of language. The GOP must call Trump home.— Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) July 15, 2018Perhaps the most biting criticism came from Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council.America and the EU are best friends. Whoever says we are foes is spreading fake news.— Donald Tusk (@eucopresident) July 15, 2018The president’s comments are particularly jarring given what we’ve learned from an indictment that the Justice Department released Friday afternoon. The indictment reveals that,in 2016, Russian operatives attempted to hack Hillary Clinton’s private email serverthe same day that Trump infamously requested that the Russians do just that.The indictment details that on or about July 27, 2016, the Conspirators attempted after hours to spearphishfor the first time email accounts at a domain hosted by a third-party provider and used by Clintons personal office.July 27, 2016, Trump: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing."Indictment: That evening, Russian operatives targeted Clinton campaign emails "for the first time." pic.twitter.com/fanyaAxwfJ— Christopher Ingraham (@_cingraham) July 13, 2018In announcing that the Justice Departmentcharged 12 Russian intelligence officers with offenses related to the hacking of the Democratic National Committees emails, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to, as NPRnotes, unite against foreign influence in the American democratic process.In my remarks, I have not identified the victims, Rosenstein said. When we confront foreign interference in American elections, it is important for us to avoid thinking politically as Republicans or Democrats and instead to think patriotically as Americans. Our response must not depend on who was victimized.The White House, for its part, has emphasized that no members of the Trump campaign were named in the indictment, and many of the president’s supporters have suggested that his meeting with Putin should proceed. Trump has indicated that he will discuss election meddling with Putin, though he’s remained vague in virtually all other respects.	Liberal
Queen Elizabeth II previouslymet 12 United States Presidents and today she met her 13th, President Donald Trump. Her Majesty met 10 of the 11 Presidents that took office after her 1953 coronation as well as Herbert Hoover after he was President and Harry Truman before she was Queen.Before the meeting, the President had glowing praise for the British Monarch.In an interview with The Sun, Trump stated,If you think of it, for so many years she has represented her country, she has really never made a mistake. You don’t see, like, anything embarrassing. She is just an incredible woman.”Unfortunately the official state visit with the Ruler of the British Empire did not go smoothly. The Queen scheduled tea with the President and First Lady, Melania Trump.But theTrumps, who did not arrive until just after 5 P.M. local time, kept Her Majesty waiting.CNN’s Max Foster: “The Queen is waiting, which you don’t often see…” Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) July 13, 2018Queen Elizabeth II is there. But where is the guest? Yeah, still in his helicopter, leaving the 92-year-old monarch to wait, and wait. pic.twitter.com/JBsrXAyunj Patricia Treble (@PatriciaTreble) July 13, 2018Oh dear, she just looked at her watch. The Queen does NOT like tardiness. pic.twitter.com/b0GXBV9oWt Patricia Treble (@PatriciaTreble) July 13, 2018And then, after arriving nearly 12 minutes late, the Queen took the President to inspect the Queen’s Guard before tea.Britains Queen Elizabeth walks around US President Donald Trump as they inspect the guard at Windsor Castle pic.twitter.com/2DWfIlTeMT RT News (@rtenews) July 13, 2018But it didn’t take long for people to notice Trump was having issues:i know comments on trump’s intelligence often veer into hyperbole but today the queen of england literally had to instruct trump on how to walk properlypic.twitter.com/ECRGmXQoQG jordan (@JordanUhl) July 13, 2018This is hilarious. The Queen acting like shes training one of her dogs as Trump struggles to master the art of walking. pic.twitter.com/M7tNwJFlOX SimonNRicketts (@SimonNRicketts) July 13, 2018The awkward moment Trump stands right in front of the Queen after making her wait 15 mins for his arrival #Dick #TrumpBabyBlimp #TrumpProtest #Trump #TrumpUKVisit #Queen pic.twitter.com/dNZ9sDg8j9 ceraunophile (@ceraunophil3) July 13, 2018tbf, she did usher him forward… ‘Donald, see if you can walk along this imaginary line’…. jockmac (@jockmac) July 13, 2018I can only imagine the restraint she had to have not to smack him with her purse. EmJay Fitch ?? (@EmJayFitch) July 13, 2018Trump can’t walk straight Colby Resists (@colbster) July 13, 2018That moment when you forget where you left the Queen of England. #TrumpVisitsUK pic.twitter.com/imCIeOgU1f EL4C (@EL4JC) July 13, 2018Baby Trump taking his first steps. (If only.) She should have just gone back inside and let him wander around for a while. (“Miss Meloonia, I trust you can get him back to the limo…”) My covfefe is like really stable (@Gildersneeze) July 13, 2018Our massive president can’t walk, has uneven arms and the tiniest hands ?? Kerri (@irrekset) July 13, 2018 However, not everyone is amused.	Liberal
President Donald Trump made waves yet again on his trip across the pond at a joint press conference between Trump and Britain’s Conservative Prime Minister Theresa May.After refusing a question from CNN’s Jim Acostafamiliarly dismissing the network as fake newsTrump deferred instead to John Roberts of Fox News, saying:“CNN is fake news. I don’t take questions from CNN.John Roberts from Fox. Let’s go to a real network.”"CNN is fake news. I don't take questions from CNN. John Roberts from Fox. Let's go to a real network." pic.twitter.com/e2TcEu6G7e— Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) July 13, 2018It wasn’t long before people on Twitter began calling out Roberts for not standing up for CNN:For John Roberts to play along and ask his question instead of turning the floor back over to CNN is shameful and plays perfectly into Trump's hands of silencing media outlets he doesn't like and furthers Fox's status as State Media. https://t.co/TEigzHxmFk— Avi (@AviAhvee) July 13, 2018Fox "News" reporter John Roberts had an opportunity to defend journalism when Trump attacked CNN, called Fox "real" news, and gave Roberts the floor. Instead, he said, "Thank you, Mr. President," and asked his question. A defining moment in his career…— Dan Gillmor (@dangillmor) July 13, 2018In response, John Roberts took to his air to clear things up and defend his former employer.I also used to work at CNN. There are some fine journalists who work there and risk their lives to report on stories around the world. To issue a blanket condemnation of the network as fake news is also unfair.But some damage had already been done.Every journalist at the Trump/May press conference who stayed seated as he refused to take a question from CNN has just betrayed our profession. They should all have left. This is not acceptable.— Bill Thompson (@billt) July 13, 2018Trump says that he won't take questions from CNN because they are "fake news," then says in the same breath that he will take a question from Fox because they are a "real network."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 13, 2018Old enough to remember when other networks came to the defense of Fox News WH correspondents during the Obama years. Such did not happen here. Lesson for the kids out there: no one should ever try to do the right thing with the expectation it will ever be reciprocated. https://t.co/Ym7E94k2Wz— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) July 13, 2018Tapper is referring to an Obama-era incident in which he challenged the administration after they determined Fox News was “not a real news organization.” Tapper defended Fox against then-White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs:Im not talking about their opinion programming or issues you have with certain reports. Im talking about saying thousands of individuals who work for a media organization, do not work for a news organization — why is that appropriate for the White House to say?CNN wasn’t the only network the president vilified during the press conference.	Liberal
When a teenager in Idaho contracted the bubonic plague in early June, it made a few headlines because it was the first case in Idaho in 26 years. Half a millennium after it killed an estimated 60% of the European population, the specter of the Black Death still looms large in Western consciousness  gangrene, swollen lymph nodes, seizures  a horrific relic of days long past. But actually, although the bubonic plague has long been understood, it has never been eradicated.In fact, outbreaks of the bubonic plague have been fairly common across the US since the early 20th Century. The last widespread outbreak happened in Los Angeles in late 1924, when 30 people who lived within a few blocks of each other contracted the bubonic plague, which developed into pneumonic plague, as it virtually always does when left untreated. Altogether, 24 people died in that outbreak, though newspapers at the time referred to it as a strain of pneumonia to prevent panic  and possibly anti-racist sentiment as the neighborhood affected was home to a large population of Mexican immigrants, including Patient 0. Antibiotics, which are still very effective against the bubonic plague, did not come into widespread use until the 1950s. Before that development, outbreaks were not unusual throughout the west, particularly in California, New Mexico, Arizona and Oregon.The infection spread in those outbreaks exactly as it did in the Middle Ages, and as it did to the recent Idahoan victim: via fleas who infect rodents. In medieval Europe, the culprits were rats. In the modern United States, theyre fluffy rats. Thats right, ground squirrels (a group that includes chipmunks) are the suspected vector in the Idaho case. Theyve been known as carriers as far back as 1924, and Los Angeles health officials credit their rodent eradication program as the key to limiting that outbreaks infections. As part of that effort, virtually all of the citys ground squirrels were exterminated.Rodents spread the disease via fleas carrying the Yersinia pestis bacteria, and rodents carrying that bacteria have been found all over the Western US, particularly in the Four Corners region. At least one case of the disease is reported there every year, and some years more than 10 cases have been recorded. Around the world, though, bubonic plague remains even more common. Madagascar is particularly affected, with dozens of cases annually. During a 2017 outbreak there, officials asked native Malagasy to halt their sacred funerary rite, Famadihana, due to worries that the tradition of exhumation and ancestor worship may be causing new infections. One reason that the plague is so widespread in Madagascar is that the diseases early symptoms closely resemble malarias early symptoms, which is also endemic, and not nearly as contagious between humans as the bubonic plague is. The 2017 outbreak ultimately infected 2,348 and killed 202 people.  That outbreak survival ratio is fairly standard with modern antibiotic treatments: 90% of treated patients recover. Left untreated, however, the death rate still reaches the medieval levels of 30-90%.The teenaged victim in Idaho, whose identity has been protected, is reportedly recovering well following his own treatment. But of course the treatment is most effective when the disease is caught early, so anyone in contact with rodents in the Western US is encouraged to be familiar with the bubonic plagues symptoms: chills, general malaise, high fever (>39 C/102.2 F), and muscle cramps all typically occur before the characteristic bubo.	Liberal
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) is demanding President Donald Trump cancel his upcoming summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin in the wake of new indictments filed against Russian intelligence operatives for interfering in the 2016 presidential election.Schumer tweeted Trump should “cancel the Putin meeting now” on Friday after Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein unveiled irrefutable proof that Russian intelligence attacked mounted a covert operation to influence American voters.Cancel the Putin meeting. Now. https://t.co/SqdhVDafH7— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) July 13, 2018Schumer’s request follows Rosenstein’s remarks during a press conference outlining that he informed the president of the Justice Department’s intent to indict Russian nationals earlier this week.Schumer also issued a statement that read:President Trump should cancel his meeting with Vladimir Putin until Russia takes demonstrable and transparent steps to prove that they won’t interfere in future elections. Glad-handing with Vladimir Putin on the heels of these indictments would be an insult to our democracy.Other Democrats are echoing Schumer’s call to cancel the summit:DOJ's criminal charges provide hard evidence that Russian intel agents attacked America to boost their favorite candidates, undermine others, and influence our elections. @realDonaldTrump, cancel your ridiculous Putin summit and get your butt on a plane back to the United States.— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) July 13, 2018In light of the charges against 12 GRU officers announced by Rod Rosenstein, @realDonaldTrump should cancel his meeting with Putin, who ordered the attack on the US. @POTUS shouldn't meet Putin until he accepts responsibility. And Trump should definitely not meet him alone. https://t.co/bP71DdGOHB— Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) July 13, 2018And now John McCain has weighed in as well, stopping just short of joining the calls for Trump to cancel his meeting.John McCain says Trump shouldn't meet with Putin next week if he's not prepared to "hold Putin accountable." pic.twitter.com/7pYiee0iSW— Jennifer Bendery (@jbendery) July 13, 2018Twitter replied with mockery of Trump and Putin’s curious bromance, as well as Trump’s inexplicable capitulation to Russian interests.We don't want him!!! pic.twitter.com/FPYbaD3Xu2— Broken Branch (@VLeeWalker2) July 13, 2018More people should do this. pic.twitter.com/aiYnkXnfRr— Patrick Randall (@PatrickRandall) July 13, 2018 pic.twitter.com/Y4yYwd2hxe— Bryan Redington (@BryanRedington) July 13, 2018The pressure on #Trump to cancel his private (no witnesses) meeting with #Putin has never been greater.But since this meeting is critical to take care of the final details for the Russian hacking of our 2018 elections … Trump will tell America to kiss his ass … and go! pic.twitter.com/Aei0eYs69G— John Moffitt (@JohnRMoffitt) July 13, 2018He's got to check in with his handler. pic.twitter.com/sEOPrMB1dp— Inappropriate Paige (@moxieontheedge) July 13, 2018Responses to Schumer’s tweet included wishes for Trump to “defect to Russia” and calls for postponing Senate hearings on Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court.Wouldn't that be the best thing in the world. The President of the United States defects to Russia seeking Asylum— Pops (@otrdriver1) July 13, 2018@realDonaldTrump is of no use to Putin if he isn't in the White House.— Elizabeth (@EAKoyle) July 13, 2018Senator: We are asking you and Congress to help stop the meeting. Do everything to stop it. #treason— Catherine K DeGeer (@CatherineDeGeer) July 13, 2018Use him meeting with Putin as additional evidence of his treason. Hes proven his alliances time and time again! Its time for you to stand up fully on this @SenSchumer #getTheTratiorOut! We all know the idiot wont #CancelPutinSummit b/c hes #TraitorTrump #theResistance pic.twitter.com/jROKAk9M0f— Amy Stewart Hale (@penndragonArt) July 13, 2018Civil rights lawyer Angel Guisado said the Senate should “indefinitely postpone [Brett] Kavanaughs confirmation process while a sitting president is under investigation for possible collusion with a foreign entity that brought about that same presidents election.Or, better yet, indefinitely postpone Kavanaughs confirmation process while a sitting president is under investigation for possible collusion with a foreign entity that brought about that same presidents election. Chuck baby, come on.— Angelo Guisado (@VoltaireLaFlare) July 13, 2018Cancel the Kavanaugh nomination.— Erin Matson (@erintothemax) July 13, 2018Concerns over potential Supreme Court rulings on the future of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, including whether the president could potentially pardon himself, or if a sitting president can be indicted, have been circulating through the political world since Trump announced his choice to replace retiring Justice Anthony Kennedy on Monday.	Liberal
The United States Department of Justice announced on Friday the indictments of twelve Russian intelligence operatives for their roles in hacking Democratic National Committee emails during the 2016 election cycle.WATCH: Deputy AG Rosenstein announces indictments of 12 Russian intelligence officials for "conspiring to interfere with the 2016 presidential election." https://t.co/MMOPo1XpSg pic.twitter.com/KKQZdLHVaf— NBC News (@NBCNews) July 13, 2018The indictments are the latest round of charges stemming from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, signifying remarkably impressive cyber-detective work conducted by American and international intelligence agencies.The White House wasted no time in firing back, claiming “this is consistent with what we’ve been saying all along.”NEW: White House responds to Russian hacking indictments. pic.twitter.com/rtj16iq7yR— Peter Alexander (@PeterAlexander) July 13, 2018There was one aspect of that response though that caught people’s attention.White House refers to the alleged hacking. Emails being hacked is a fact, not an allegation. https://t.co/vWaHhcUDEj— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) July 13, 2018Going the way of Hannity into potential Seth Rich territory, except from a government official https://t.co/O5LxzIUEdj— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) July 13, 2018The White House statement on today's indictment includes no condemnation of Russia. It also refers to "alleged hacking." The fact that hacking happened is not an allegation.— Chris Megerian (@ChrisMegerian) July 13, 2018The President himself has been uncharacteristically quiet on the subject, although perhaps it’s understandable:Thoughts and prayers to the President, who is being forced to wait until tea with the Queen is over to tweet "NO COLLUSION!!!!!"— Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) July 13, 2018But 2016 is not the only election people are concerned about in the wake of these indictments.The New York Times’ Maggie Haberman noted that stolen emails from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee “were not broadly released,” fueling speculation that Russian election interference efforts may be ramping up in the four months before Americans head to the polls to determine which political party will control Congress.Your reminder that the DCCC stolen materials were not broadly released. Midterms are four months from now. https://t.co/qzOS0MznU3— Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) July 13, 2018These concerns were voiced by members of Congress last November as circumstantial evidence of Russian election meddling began to surface.The time to hack-proof the 2018 election is expiring  and Congress is way behind https://t.co/YKW2mDgufG @moveon @democracynow @occupywallst @housedemocrats @senatedems @dnc @dccc— Son of the Moon (@27Seascapes) December 20, 2017Notably, a bi-partisan effort to allocate $160 million to enhance the security of voting machines stalled in the Senate last fall.Im concerned that theres not enough urgency broadly to move legislation forward, Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM) told POLITICO. But were going to keep pushing because I think these problems are not going away.Theres no question from the standpoint of what we need to do, were behind, said Representative Bennie Thompson (D-MS), who co-chairs an effort by House Democrats to enact protections on the nation’s largely decentralized election infrastructure. And by being behind, were at risk for any future federal election.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned in Mayof continued efforts by Russia to influence the outcome of American elections.American intelligence agencies have unanimously concluded that the Russians conducted efforts to interfere in the 2016 election – a fact with which Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), co-chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, agrees. Burr emphasized in May the Senate has spent more than a year reviewing the sources, tradecraft, and analytic work, and we see no reason to dispute the conclusions.There are more than 20 elections set to be held in the United States and Europe between now and the presidential election in 2020, and experts worry Russian efforts to interfere may be too far along to be stopped.“Worryingly, Western governments are still fighting the last war,” Anders Rasmussen and George W. Bush Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff wrote in Politico last month. “Theyre stuck in the blunt 2016 lexis of fake news, while current trends indicate that Russia and similar adversaries are sharpening their toolkit.”So far, Mueller has filed more than 100 criminal charges, which include those against three companies, nearly 30 Russians, and three Trump campaign associates who have submitted guilty pleas.Agents working on behalf of the GRU, the Russian state intelligence agency, “conducted large-scale cyber operations to interfere with the 2016 US. presidential election,” the indictments allege.In or around 2016, the Russian Federation (Russia) operated a military intelligence agency called the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff (GRU). The GRU had multiple units, including. Units 26165 and 74455, engaged in cyber operations that involved the staged releases of documents stolen through computer intrusions. These unitsconducted largescale cyber operations to interfere with the 2016 US. presidential election.Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein outlined additional allegations that Russian officials broke into one state’s election board website and stole information on hundreds of thousands of voters.“Russian GRU officers hacked the website of a state election board and stole information about 500,000 voters,”Rosenstein said at a press conference Friday afternoon. “They also hacked into computers of a company that supplied software used to verify voter registration information.”Rosenstein: "In a second, related conspiracy, Russian GRU officers hacked the website of a state election board and stole information about 500,000 voters. They also hacked into computers of a company that supplied software used to verify voter registration information."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 13, 2018Rosenstein also told reporters he informed President Donald Trump of the evidence obtained by the Justice Department as well as their intent to indict Russian nationals for their role in election interference.“I briefed President Trump on the allegations earlier this week,” the DAG said. “The president is fully aware of the department’s actions today.”President Trump was briefed on allegations against the 12 Russians and is "fully aware" of the actions taken by the Justice Department, Deputy AG Rosenstein says. https://t.co/MMOPo1XpSg pic.twitter.com/vgfNERGIBG— NBC News (@NBCNews) July 13, 2018Rosenstein also swiped at partisan bickering over the integrity of the Russia probe.“We do not try cases on television or in Congressional hearings,” the DAG said in his remarks.Rosenstein: "We do not try cases on television or in Congressional hearings"— Betsy Woodruff (@woodruffbets) July 13, 2018Republicans, with the president at the helm,have been attempting to undermine the investigation and sway public opinion against Mueller and his team of prosecutors.Rosenstein: "When we confront foreign interference in American elections, it is important for us to avoid thinking politically as Republicans or Democrats and instead to think patriotically as Americans. Our response must not depend on who was victimized."— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 13, 2018Trump said on Friday U.S.-Russian relations have been “hurt very badly” due to the “rigged witch hunt.”	Liberal
In July 2016, Donald Trump, then a presidential candidate,invited Russia to hack Hillary Clinton’s emails, asking the Kremlin to find the 30,000 emails that are missing from the personal server she used during her tenure as Secretary of State.I will tell you this, Russia: If youre listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing, the Republican nominee said at a news conference in Florida. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.Trump’s remarks shocked the Clinton campaignto say nothing of the worldand many perceived them as a potential threat to national security. Trump, as he does with most criticism, shrugged off these concerns. He made the request of the Russians on July 27, 2016.And on that same day, according to an indictment that the Justice Department released earlier this afternoon, the Russians took Trump up on his offer.The indictment details that “on or about July 27, 2016, the Conspirators attempted after hours to spearphishfor the first time email accounts at a domain hosted by a third-party provider and used by Clinton’s personal office.”July 27, 2016, Trump: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing."Indictment: That evening, Russian operatives targeted Clinton campaign emails "for the first time." pic.twitter.com/fanyaAxwfJ— Christopher Ingraham (@_cingraham) July 13, 2018That newsthe confirmation many had waited fortook social media by storm.Peter Daou, a Democratic strategist who has advised numerous political figures, including Hillary Clinton, expressed an anger felt by multitudes of Americans.I want you all to remember: with their email obsession and endless coverage of Podesta's hacked emails, the mainstream media actively helped #Russia disseminate pro-Trump and anti-Clinton propaganda. They have NEVER taken responsibility for it. #Rosenstein #Mueller— Peter Daou (@peterdaou) July 13, 2018SLOWLY:Our own law enforcement and intel agencies…have confirmed that Russia launched a cyberattack…against the United States… to elect Donald Trump…and defeat Hillary Clinton.HOW ARE WE STILL GOING ABOUT BUSINESS AS USUAL??#Rosenstein #Mueller— Peter Daou (@peterdaou) July 13, 2018Other political commentators and members of the media also weighed in, with some even calling out their colleagues for spending so much time focusing on the stories about Hillary Clinton’s emails rather than the specter of Russian collusion which lingered over the country even before the 2016presidential election was in full swing.From what I'm hearing on Russian state TV, I can surmise that Putin will blame not only Obama, but also Hillary Clinton for the deterioration of U.S.-Russia relations, #Crimea, etc. to create a real bonding experience with Trump. Trump will eat it up. The writing is on the wall. pic.twitter.com/dW2pNENJjC— Julia Davis (@JuliaDavisNews) July 13, 2018Trey Gowdy said that Trump was "joking" when he asked Russia to hack Hillary's emailsbut…Trey Gowdy can't understand hyperbole when Peter Strokz said Clinton should win 100,000,000 to 0.He's either an idiot or a partisan hack… or both!I'll take BOTH!!#StrzokHearing— Brian Krassenstein (@krassenstein) July 13, 2018Trump literally stood in front of a microphone and said, "Russia, let's get this DNC/Clinton hacking thing going, the Fake News media will weaponize that shit!" And Putin did. And the media did. And here we are.Ratings are way up tho, right? Good job everyone.— Elliott Lusztig (@ezlusztig) July 13, 2018To everyone who said:Russia hacked the election.Trump is a Russian puppet.Hillary Clinton rightly belongs in the White House as POTUS…You are a patriot. If you dont care about these Russian hacking indictments, you dont care about this country.— Dana Goldberg (@DGComedy) July 13, 2018In recent days, President Trump had ramped up his attacks against Special Counsel Robert Mueller and members of his investigation into Russian interference, lashing out at Lisa Page and Peter Strzok, two figures at the center of a Republican-led Congressional probe into whether Mueller’s investigation has operated with clear biasand even animustoward the president.How can the Rigged Witch Hunt proceed when it was started, influenced and worked on, for an extended period of time, by former FBI Agent/Lover Peter Strzok? Read his hate filled and totally biased Emails and the answer is clear!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 11, 2018Although the president has not commented on today’s indictment himself, former Deputy Secretary of State and Director of National Intelligence John Negroponte argued that its release could have waited until after Trump’s face to face meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin in Helsinki.It could have just as well waited until the president had left Europe. So it raised my eyebrow. I dont know what the mitigating circumstances are,Negropontetold Hill.TV’s Krystal Ball on “Rising.”Negroponte added that the meeting between the two leaders should still proceed:If it’s been scheduled, it’s important that these two heads of state meet. Russia is a permanent member of the [United Nations] Security Council, it’s a nuclear weapons state, it has global reach, whether it’s in the Middle East, the Korean peninsula, or elsewhere, and I think it behooves us to have that kind of dialogue.	Liberal
The 45th President of the United States tweets rather prolifically. Because of this, there is much to mine online in the Twitter history of Donald Trump, before and after he became president.And frequently, within his reported over 35,000 tweets, is one that comes back to haunt him.It happens so frequently that users of Reddit theAmerican social news aggregation, web content rating and discussion website started the subReddit “Trump Criticizes Trump: Using Trump’s Previous Tweets to Criticize President Trump”.According to their description, “For every Trump action there is a Trump tweet criticizing that action.” There are over 900 examples posted so far.The newest Trump tweet cited is from almost two years ago and concerns Russian hackers and Democratic National Committee (DNC) emails.But why bring this up now? Then candidate Trump posted the tweet back in July 2016.Trump’s Department of Justice, headed by Trump appointees, Republicans Jeff Sessions and Rod Rosenstein, announced indictments Friday, July 13, against 12 Russian intelligence officials. During the 2016 presidential campaign, the 12 Russian military officers hacked the DNC emails, according to the court filings.They then, through another party, leaked emails fromsenior Democratic Party members during the 2016 presidential election campaign. The hacks and leaks threw the DNC into disarray only months before the election.On June 9, 2016, Donald Trump Jr. and Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, met at Trump Tower with at least one admitted Russian government operative. After the election, the Trump administration initially lied about the purpose of the meeting, but eventually revealed,during congressional testimony,the real reason was gathering information damaging to the campaign of Hillary Clinton.Reddit is not the only place that Trump’s 2016 tweet, coming a little over a month after his campaign’s meeting with Russian operatives offering them DNC dirt, got notice.	Liberal
Attorney Michael Avenatti is no stranger to calling out President Donald Trump. The Stormy Daniels representative is known fornot mincing wordswhen criticizing the president and his former lawyer Michael Cohen.On Friday, Avenatti took to the streets of London to join the massive resistance across the pond. The fiery attorney began tweeting to make sure that Trump knew.Yep, lots of respect for Mr. Trump here in London today. BIGLY respect. #FightClub #Basta pic.twitter.com/fTqKaAJozi— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) July 13, 2018Huge turnout. And people are fired up. #FightClub #Basta pic.twitter.com/WuLER1dmJ1— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) July 13, 2018The tweets come a day after Trump insisted thatI get thousands of notifications from people in the UK that they love the President of the United States. In the same interview, Trump mentioned a poll that had him beating Abraham Lincoln for most popular Republican (he did not specify the name of the poll) before saying that if an “honest poll” were conducted in the UK, he’d be “very strong.”Twitter seemed to side more with Avenatti.https://twitter.com/Blessed_Humbled/status/1017777212496306176Wow, Trump at the UK press conference: "CNN is fake news. I don't take question from CNN", simply silencing CNN, then switches to Fox. If I were a journalist I would stand up and walk away.— Simon Oak #FBPE (@SimonOak3) July 13, 2018Tens of thousands of Brits have taken to the streets to protest Trump today. That should be us Americans EVERY SINGLE DAY.— Sammi Soquel (@SammiSoquel) July 13, 2018Listening to Trumps news conference in the UK. He is just an absolute idiot. No grasp of the English language at all. Its so embarrassing to have him as president of the US.— David Hoffman (@atDavidHoffman) July 13, 2018https://twitter.com/Wordsmatter11/status/1017782203365896193Avenatti is one of the thousands taking to the streets of London to protest Donald Trump. The protests come just a day after Trump’s latest slight against our closest ally.	Liberal
For nearly 10 hours on Thursday, the Judiciary and Oversight Committees of the United States House of Representatives questioned Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agent Peter Strzok. Republicans, and the Trump administration, claimed text messages critical of President Donald Trump that Strzok sent to FBI lawyer Lisa Page were proof positive of an overarching conspiracy against Trump.But Maryland Democratic Representative Jamie Raskin refused to continue the GOP narrative, pointing out the hypocrisy of Republicans pointing fingers at private text messages from Strzok, critical of Trump, as the proof of a deep state conspiracy. He did so with a list of Republican insults hurled very publicly at the President.Watch the video below of Raskin asking Strzok if he is also responsible for the GOP insulting Trump.WATCH Raskin remind everyone that insults toward Donald Trump do not mean deep state conspiracy as he points out overwhelming Republican hypocrisy. These greatest hits insults are delicious. pic.twitter.com/vEwy9jqQp3 Amee Vanderpool (@girlsreallyrule) July 12, 2018Raskin concludes saying,My colleagues have disgraced themselves today.”Earlier, Raskin pointed out that Strzok also had opinions about Democrats, stating,You can still insult government officials without being thrown into jail or held in contempt of Congress, by our side of the aisle. There’s no kings here and we have freedom of speech.”.@RepRaskin points out that Strzok also bashed Democrats and Bernie Sanders in his texts: “You can still insult government officials without being thrown into jail or held in contempt of Congress, by our side of the aisle. There’s no kings here and we have freedom of speech.” pic.twitter.com/YHb9ZKWKua Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) July 12, 2018The questioning period frequently devolved into long orations by GOP committee members to plead their case against the FBI and, by extension, the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. The furtherance and legitimization of a popular conspiracy theory dominated the hearing.In the theory, Strzok’s involvement in the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails and early involvement in the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian election interference, makes both completely corrupt and tainted because Strzok texted his political opinions to Page.	Liberal
Prior to his Friday visit to the United Kingdom, President Donald Trump gave an exclusive interview toThe Sun in which he blasted British Prime Minister Theresa May for her handling of Brexit.EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump: "I told Theresa May how to do Brexit but she wrecked it" – see the full interview here: https://t.co/2osyjP7dEI— The Sun (@TheSun) July 13, 2018Trump claimed May ignored his advice on how to handle negotiations on Britain’s exit from the European Union, which was approved by voter referendum in 2016. The president said May has gone “the opposite way” of what he had suggested and that the results have been “very unfortunate.”“She wrecked it.”But when pressed about the interview on Friday, Trump denied making incendiary claims against May, calling such reports “fake news” even though the interview was recorded.Yup, @realDonaldTrump just asserted he would be vindicated by a recording as he lied about not having criticized the prime minister of Great Britain… IN A RECORDED INTERVIEW we all just heard.— Ken Dilanian (@KenDilanianNBC) July 13, 2018“Fortunately, we tend to record stories now,” Trump said. “We record when we deal with reporters. It’s called ‘fake news.'”Pres. Trump denies interview with The Sun was critical of Prime Minister Theresa May."Fortunately, we tend to record stories now…we record when we deal with reporters. It's called 'fake news.'" https://t.co/Ak5N61XZBy pic.twitter.com/5KTq5lHhZw— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 13, 2018Now the president of the United States is accusing @kwelkernbc of "dishonest reporting," because she asked a fact-based question about statements that all of us heard with our own ears.— Ken Dilanian (@KenDilanianNBC) July 13, 2018Reporters pounced on the president’s “gaslighting.”Trump has taken his gaslighting global. https://t.co/zUFiHJtRsh— mieke eoyang (@MiekeEoyang) July 13, 2018Trump denies he said something that he said on a tape that everyone has heard https://t.co/y07TplXA0h pic.twitter.com/J0PfTQ3gHQ— Aaron Blake (@AaronBlake) July 13, 2018Twitter slammed Trump for calling his own words “fake news.”@POTUS @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/VqtHunbbTe— Charles (@creeknation01) July 13, 2018Just a quick reminder, if Trump says " fake news " then odds are it's true!— Brandon Horan (@brandon_r_horan) July 13, 2018Trump is s pathological liar.— Freddy (@richiefreddy) July 13, 2018Fake News: its true and it make me look bad.— Julia R (@JuliaR99120014) July 13, 2018 pic.twitter.com/Lwgc56lBgv— Scum O'Cide (@cide_o) July 13, 2018His comments were taped. Hard to call that fake news— H. Gerald Beaver (@BeaverGerald) July 13, 2018This walk back of his recorded comments echoes a statement from White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders that seems to have been dictated directly by Trump.White House just issued this. pic.twitter.com/sXNLLMpR58— Josh Dawsey (@jdawsey1) July 13, 2018British lawmakers slammed Trump’s comments in the interview.“Where are your manners,” Parliament member Sam Gyimah tweeted.Where are your manners, Mr President?— Sam Gyimah MP (@SamGyimah) July 13, 2018Sarah Wollaston, a conservative member of Parliament, said Trump was determined to insult May. The divisive, dog-whistle rhetoric in his Sun interview is repulsive,” she added. “If signing up to the Trumpworldvieww is the price of a deal, its not worth paying.	Liberal
The Scotsman, Scotland’s national newspaper, published aparticularly scathing editorial denouncing President Donald Trump ahead of his visit to the United Kingdom.Leader comment: A denunciation of Donald Trump. https://t.co/mdmHR3nwC6— The Scotsman (@TheScotsman) July 12, 2018“The 45th US President is an appalling human being,” the editorial staff observes, before launching into an exhaustive list of Trump’s transgressions.Trump, among other thingsThe Scotsman notes:The Scotsman‘s editorial team also takes Trump to task for his penchant for decrying the media as “fake news,”a mantra which many believe galvanized a gunman who killed several people at the headquarters of Maryland’sCapital Gazette while already embroiled in a lawsuit against the paper.But the president, long criticized for projecting his own guilt onto others, according to aWashington Post analysis thatThe Scotsman cites, “lies an average of 6.5 times a day.”The Scotsman adds thatThe New York Times has “also tried to make a definitive list of his numerous falsehoods,” and it’s a list that grows each time the president composes a tweet for his millions of followers. The Scotsman quotes Rex Tillerson, who summed up the president’s habit of lying in a speech he gave shortly after he was fired from his position as Secretary of State:If our leaders seek to conceal the truth, or we as people become accepting of alternative realities that are no longer grounded in facts, then we as American citizens are on a pathway to relinquishing our freedom.Referring back to their observation that Trump is a “sexual abuser” (or at the very least someone who gloats about fantasies in which women forfeit their consent),The Scotsman‘s editorial staff reminds its readers of Trump’s statements on the infamousAccess Hollywood tape: “When you’re a star, they let you do it,” he said, providing justification for groping women whenever he pleases. When the tape emerged,The Scotsman reminds us, Trump downplayed his comments, saying they were just “locker room talk.” And when multiple women came forward to say he had assaulted them, Trump accused them of lying.“Our political leaders might hide their distaste in the coming days in an attempt to get a much-needed post-Brexit trade deal,”The Scotsman concludes,“but we should not forget what kind of man Trump really is.”The Scotsman‘s editorial went viral after it was shared by Scottish author Mark Leggat, who called the editorial “Unprecedented in 193 years of daily publishing.”This is in a Scottish national newspaper, The Scotsman. Unprecedented in 193 years of daily publishing. pic.twitter.com/W72DbN2zH0— Mark Leggatt (@Mark_Leggatt) July 12, 2018The Scotsman editorial, observes one social media user, is representative of a pattern, mainly that people no longer respect Trump for the office he holds:I think we passed a point today, where folks no longer offer any respect for Donald Trump as a result of the office he holds. People calling him out no holds barred; or better yet, laughter.  See Strozok hearing, editorial in The Scotsman, and the German broadcaster….— Daniel Sofer (@danielsofer) July 13, 2018Others concurred:Excellent article. Each time our "leaders" fail to call him out I see Chamberlain and his piece of paper … and I hear the words: … "and then they came for me."— isabell bowcrisp (@isabellbowcrisp) July 13, 2018https://twitter.com/milesey7/status/1017549487315869697Dont often buy this paper, today I made an exception.— TribeofToby (@TribeofToby) July 13, 2018The Scotsman‘s editorial comes just a day after Trump said,“I think they like me in the UK” despite the threat of protests.	Liberal
If the GOP gets its way in Arizona, students at public and charter schools will no longer learn about evolution in science class. A new draft revision of state science standards replaces the scientific term evolution in the curriculum with the phrase theory of evolution, which serves to diminish its relevance and dismiss the vast body of evidence that supports it. The proposed new standards address the origins of life in its Life Sciences section: The theory of evolution seeks to make clear the unity and diversity of living and extinct organisms, says the document, which was developed by more than 100 teachers, parents and community members, but then revised, allegedly to the liking of State Superintendent of Education Diane Douglas. Many of the revisions can be seen as visible corrections on the draft. Teachers are alarmed, including those who worked for more than a year on the new standards, only to see ideological interference in the final draft. One teacher quit over the issue. I was directed to make changes to adjust the wording to ‘evolution,'” said Lacey Wieser, a former high school biology teacher. “That was coming from levels above me, I believe, from the superintendents office. I turned in my resignation and said, ‘I will not be part of this.'”Scientists and science-minded parents are also alarmed because the word theory appears to dismiss evolution as just a theory. However, evolution has been proven through fossil records and DNA analysis and long-accepted as fact by the scientific community. Microevolution, a branch of evolution that studies changes within species over time, has been confirmed by tests in the laboratory and in the field, such as Peter and Rosemary Grants studies of evolving beak shapes among Galapagos finches.Researchers who study viruses and diseases watch evolutionthe process by which organisms evolve and adapt to survive through natural selectionhappen in a rapid timeframe. (This enables viruses to become resistant to drugs or vaccinations, for example.)Instead of scientific information, Superintendent Douglas and four of the five candidates for her position, up for reelection in the fall, would prefer that students learn about intelligent design. Intelligent design is a science-y sounding rebranding of creationism, an ideologically motivated pseudoscientific theory that an intelligent being created humans and other living beings, and placed them, fully formed and relatively modern, on the planet. Douglas says that she would not force the teaching of creationism in the schools, even though she was heard saying that she would like to at an event. Should the theory of intelligent design be taught along with the theory of evolution? Absolutely, she said.The recording of me talking about Intelligent Design was taken at a political function where I expressed my personal belief that Intelligent Design should be taught along with the theory of evolution. Although that is my personal belief, my belief is not included in the Arizona Science Standards, she said.The Secular Coalition for Arizona has raised concerns about the interference by religion in public education, noting that such interests breach the wall between church and state. “As taxpayer-funded institutions, public schools are constitutionally obligated to teach a religiously neutral curriculum based on the best available evidence and science,” said Tory Roberg, coalition director of government affairs for the Secular Coalition for Arizona and a parent of two students.“Intelligent designis a religious ideology and has no place in science class.”In 1987, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the teaching of creationism in public schools was unconstitutional, a violation of the separation between church and state. Thirteen years ago, a federal judge in Pennsylvania rejected public-schoolinstruction on intelligent design as unconstitutional, because it is a religious viewpoint that advances “a particular version of Christianity.”“Parents like me should be concerned because our kids need to be prepared to compete in a scientifically sound world,” Roberg said. “Colleges and universities use evolutionary basics and build on this in advanced science classes. We can’t give our kids a second-rate education. We must demand the best.”	Liberal
Two previously unseen pages of Anne Franks diary were recently uncovered after researchers in Amsterdam were able to access the pages using digital image-processing technology. The long-standing concern was that separation of the pages might damage the integrity of the famous white-and-red plaid notebook.The pages, which were covered by brown paper, were presented at a news conference in May.The story goes as follows: Anne Frank tried to cover up the two pages of writing in her diary, which contained dirty jokes and, what she called, sexual matters. She glued or pasted brown paper over the pages to conceal them from a potential readers eye. At the time, she likely never believed such readers would be researchers and students of her work, but rather, her father or any of the others cramped in the hidden attic annex during World War II. Researchers at the Anne Frank House found the two obscured pages in the original version of the diary while they were monitoring its condition and photographing the pages in 2016.The notebooks are examined once every 10 years and otherwise stored away for preservation.When you touch the pages they can be damaged, so we dont touch them, said Teresien da Silva, head of collections at the Anne Frank House.New digital image-processing technology that only recently became available has now revealed the once-hidden text of pages 78 and 79, according to the Anne Frank House and two Dutch cultural institutions. A news conference at the Anne Frank Foundations office displayed a video of the text underneath the two taped pages, which were viewed without any contact with the physical pages.I sometimes imagine that someone might come to me and ask me to inform him about sexual matters, Frank penned in Dutch. How would I go about it? Addressing an imaginary listener using an elevated voice, she attempts to answer her rhetorical questions, using phrases such as rhythmical movements, to describe sex, and internal medicament, to reference contraception.In the pages, menstruation is another topic of discussion. She calls it a sign that she is ripe. On prostitution: In Paris they have big houses for that.Perhaps even more fascinating than her young words on sexual subject matter is the discovery of Franks first real attempt at literary writing.Senior researcher Peter de Bruijn, of the Huygens Institute for the History of the Netherlands, a partner organization in the research, explained that the pages are not significant for their content  into which she similarly delves in other parts of the diary, often even more explicitly  but rather, for their style. She starts with an imaginary person whom she is telling about sex, so she creates a kind of literary environment to write about a subject shes maybe not comfortable with, he explained.Ronald Leopold, executive director of the Anne Frank House, said the discovery adds meaning to our understanding of the diary, calling it a very cautious start to her becoming a writer and in very early stages. At the time of writing, Frank was only 13 years old. The pages were written in her first of two versions of the diary, on September 28, 1942.The first was written in a series of small notebooks, dating from her 13th birthday on June 12, 1942, to August 1, 1944, and was meant solely for her own viewing. When she learned from the radio that the Dutch government in exile was planning to publish personal accounts of peoples experiences under the German occupation, Frank decided to make her diary into a book she called The Secret Annex. She aspired to submit the pages for publication following the war.	Liberal
During a segment Tuesday on CNN, Republican pundit, political strategist and media consultant Rick Wilson made some pointed remarks aimed at the administration of President Donald Trump and their zero tolerance immigration policy.The CNN host, Poppy Harlow, had just finished airing video of a reunion between a father and son who were separated by the Trump administration policy.On orders from the president, in a strategy designed by White House adviser Stephen Miller, Attorney General Jeff Sessions enacted the change in May. Sessions revoked prosecutorial discretion within the Department of Justice regarding anyone entering the United States through the southern border without prior authorization.In the segment, Harlow introduced Wilson as a former strategist for current Trump lawyer, Rudy Giuliani. She then asked Wilson about the optics of crying children and the impact it could have on the Trump administration, stating “…do pictures like [CNN correspondent] Rosa [Flores] just showed us of this little boy being reunited with his father after 43 days, will those haunt this administration?”To which Wilson replied,“Well, I think the pictures of the cruelty of this administration are a very deliberate part of this. They’re a feature, not a bug, of the Trump administration’s policy. And so I think that we’re in a situation where no one inside the administration is unhappy about these things because they’re only talking to their base.”They’re only talking to their core supporters. And their core supporters, you know, want anybody who’s darker than a latte deported.”“They’re not happy about, you know, immigration of any kind. They don’t believe in the asylum process.”They want to take and separate these families as a matter of deterrence and as a matter of like I said a sort of theater of cruelty. And I think it really doesn’t speak well to their moral standing.”As Wilson continued to speak, a visibly uncomfortable Harlow and her other guest, Democratic strategist and political commentator,Joe Trippi, spoke over him briefly.Finally, a still shaken Harlow remarked,“That’s quite an argument. I mean, you’re saying the administration wants this. They want I mean I get it’s their practice but I’m saying they want these pictures, they want it to play out like this, they… really?”To which Wilson responded again with information that appeared to rattle Harlow and Trippi, stating,Yes. And there’s been some reporting on this. Stephen Miller and the guys in the white nationalist faction of the party are very happy about this. They love the whole optics of this cruel sort of exercise.”Harlow initially attempted to cut Wilson off, but eventually said, “Okay,” and then directed a question to her other guest.“Joe Trippi,” Harlow began, “you’re the Democrat on this panel. Do you I mean, they do not make up the entirety of the White House, nor do they make up… nor is Stephen Miller, you know, a representative of the entirety of the Trump base.”However Trippi agreed with Wilson’s assessment.	Liberal
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called out President Donald Trump during her weekly press conference on Thursday for being so soft on Vladimir Putin.Earlier this week, Pelosi tweeted what she felt the President should extract from Putin when they meet next week:If @realDonaldTrump leaves the Putin meeting w/o ironclad assurances & concrete steps toward full cessation of Russian attacks on our democracy, this meeting will not only be a failure  it will be a grave step backward for the future of the international order & global security.— Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) July 11, 2018But considering the way he has continued to insult our allies and embrace Putin this week, Pelosi remarked:“But all of his behavior this week begs the question that I have asked for 18 months: What do the Russians have on Donald Trump, politically, financially and personally?You can watch it below at 13:15.Many Americans on Twitter agree with Pelosi that the Kremlin and Trump are far too cozy.Pelosi & Schumer speak the truth. Actions speak louder than words. No additional sanctions after VETO proof vote by Congress! Praises Putin & autocrats while tearing down every democratic allie! Russia is celebrating over NATO/Trump acts.— Dev Dynes (@DevDynes) July 12, 2018While Republicans sleep: A rising tide of authoritarianism sweeps over capitals in Turkey and the Philippines, in Hungary and Poland, in far right parties in Germany, France and Austria. And President Trump cozies up to Putin and shuns our NATO allies. Wake up! Do your jobs.— Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) July 11, 2018So does everybody. Weve been waiting for two years!! Mueller investigates like Democrats govern. Really ineffective, and slow.— BBWilly (@DraftsmanWho) July 12, 2018As do we all! Trump totally belongs to Putin. Why? Money, blackmail, bizarre&weird love for Putin?? We need to know! Then America will be rid of Donald!— Elainejul (@elainejul) July 12, 2018 And of course, blackmail would not by any means be unheard of from Russia.In Russian politics, the term is known asKompromat, or compromising materials. Ways of gathering compromising material usually relies upon entrapment, and often involves exploiting the victim’s sexual recklessness.During the press conference, Pelosi called on Trump to do more thansomething more than, “I asked him, he said no and that was that.'”Her words did not stop Trump from alienating allies. Only hours after this speech, Trump criticized British Conservative Prime Minister Theresa May’s amenity to a “soft Brexit,” which includes a free-trade policy on EU goods and other aspects that, to many conservatives, betray the goal of a hard Brexit. Trump, in a stunning display of consistency, didn’t hesitate to express his opinion:I would have done it much differently. I actually told Theresa May how to do it but she didnt agree, she didnt listen to me. She wanted to go a different route. I would actually say that she probably went the opposite way.Trump also dangled the possibility of killing a trade deal with Britain:If they do a deal like that, we would be dealing with the European Union instead of dealing with the UK, so it will probably kill the deal.Expressing these opinions on a visit to the United Kingdom is antagonistic at best to what Winston Churchill deemed the “special relationship.” It seems to validate the accusations by Pelosi of Trump’s alienation toward allies and his admiration of Putin and Russia. The effects of these sentiments probably won’t do Trump any favors, but they do align with what Theresa May has described asPutin’s interests.To many, Trump’s sentiments played right into Russia’s hands.Trump's doing a Proxy war for Russia. He said May's Brexit deal didn't sever all ties with the EU, & until she does, no trade deal with US!— Arctic Friend (@FriendEden100) July 12, 2018President Putin dictated to me how to properly handle the Brexit deal, and I conveyed that information to PM May. She wanted to go a different route.  US President Trump criticizes British PM Theresa May over the Brexit deal.There, I translated it to English for you.— Christopher Jones (@yerliberal) July 12, 2018Trump's doing a Proxy war for Russia. He said May's Brexit deal didn't sever all ties with the EU, & until she does, no trade deal with US!— Arctic Friend (@FriendEden100) July 12, 2018Vladdy's little helper keeps doing the work of the #Kremlin. #GOP are selling America down the river. Why else do the #GOPTreasonTrip?  https://t.co/h5KdBLc5QY— Neil  (@basementvegan) July 12, 2018	Liberal
Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) criticized President Donald Trump after he made international headlines for comments which undermined the integrity of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and heightened political tensions with the United States’ allies.“The mindset that comprehends a trade deficit as a grievous offense or an unfair act of aggression is the same mindset that can upend vital security relationships that have been similarly misperceived,” the veteran senator said.And then he took a swipe at President Trump directly:Sometimes, if I didn’t know better I might say that we purposefully trying to destabilize the western alliance and to turn the world upside-down. I might come to this conclusion because, by a process of elimination, no other answer would make any sense.Mr. President, if this is some kind of stratagem, what good could possibly be achieved by heedlessly making friends into enemies? And who, exactly would benefit?Sen. Jeff Flake on Pres. Trump's aggressive posture towards NATO: "Sometimes, if I didn't know better I might say that we purposefully trying to  destabilize the western alliance and to turn the world upside-down." https://t.co/su71fOXq8R pic.twitter.com/9fx7rjjSga— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 12, 2018Earlier, Flake called out the president for his friendly regard for Vladimir Putina relationship which has continued to baffle national security experts and the world at large given that Trump is under federal investigation on allegations that he colluded with the Russian government to win the 2016 presidential election.Trump and Putin are expected to meet Monday for a private meeting in Helsinki, and Trump has saidhis meeting with Putin “may be the easiest” moment of his trip to Europe.Singing his praises for no good reason sends a terrifying message to our allies.  Flattering such a man … is simply bizarre. That the admiration comes from an American president, well, that is unconscionable, Flake said. He observed the strangeness of the two men meeting face to face without staff present, particularly when the world seems to be hanging in the balance.He added:If the White House is as confused about the nature of the threat we face from Mr. Putin as it seems to be, a meeting between our president and his Russian counterpart for which there is no record could not be more concerning. It is vital that even the most private meetings between leaders not be lost to history…Why  does the presidents complaint about our closest friends on the global stage unnervingly echo the Russian position? Mr. Putins singular foreign policy goal is to weaken democracies and destroy the Western alliance. Could we possibly be helping him any more in his quest than by baselessly attacking our own allies?And attack them Trump has.The president has often been accused of projecting his own guilt onto his critics, and the irony of the moment this week when heclaimedthat Germany is totally controlled by Russia, citingthecontroversial Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project, only heightened already fraught relationships with NATO allies.I think its very sad when Germany makes a massive oil and gas deal with Russia, where youre supposed to be guarding against Russia and Germany goes out and pays billions and billions of dollars a year to Russia, Trump said at the time.He added: They will be getting between 60 and 70 percent of their energy from Russia and a new pipeline, and you tell me if that is appropriate because I think its not.The president repeated these claims in several other tweets.Billions of additional dollars are being spent by NATO countries since my visit last year, at my request, but it isnt nearly enough. U.S. spends too much. Europes borders are BAD! Pipeline dollars to Russia are not acceptable!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 11, 2018Presidents have been trying unsuccessfully for years to get Germany and other rich NATO Nations to pay more toward their protection from Russia. They pay only a fraction of their cost. The U.S. pays tens of Billions of Dollars too much to subsidize Europe, and loses Big on Trade!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2018….On top of it all, Germany just started paying Russia, the country they want protection from, Billions of Dollars for their Energy needs coming out of a new pipeline from Russia. Not acceptable! All NATO Nations must meet their 2% commitment, and that must ultimately go to 4%!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2018The presidents comments yesterday compelledGerman Chancellor Angela Markel to reject his claims of Russian control by recallingher own youth in Soviet-dominated East Germany and defending her nations independence and policies:Because of given circumstances, I want to point out one thing: I experienced the Soviet occupation of one part of Germany myself.I am very happy that today we are united in freedom, the Federal Republic of Germany. Because of that we can say that we can make our independent policies and make independent decisions. That is very good, especially for people in eastern Germany.	Liberal
President Donald Trump stated during his campaign run, and after, that he was “non-braggadocious.” But Trump’s use of language laden with superlatives is well documented.Most, best, biggest and other such grandiose terms describing his own accomplishments dot all of the President’s speeches and tweets. On Tuesday, the President tweeted, according to an unnamed and unlinked poll, he was “the most popular Republican in the history of the Party.”Thank you to all of my great supporters, really big progress being made. Other countries wanting to fix crazy trade deals. Economy is ROARING. Supreme Court pick getting GREAT REVIEWS. New Poll says Trump, at over 90%, is the most popular Republican in history of the Party. Wow! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2018Two of the four Presidents on Mount Rushmore are Republicans. According to Trump’s tweet however he surpassed the popularity of Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt.So when the President shared a letter sent in Korean from North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, as well as an official White House translation, people noticed certain aspects of the language in the English translation transcript.A very nice note from Chairman Kim of North Korea. Great progress being made! pic.twitter.com/6NI6AqL0xt Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2018The letter, according to the official White House translation, refers to the President as “Your Excellency” five times, capitalized each time. The letter is only four sentences long.The full transcript of the body of the letter, seen below, contains a wealth of superlatives and praise. But how much is lost in translation? Or is there another reason for the language choices?The significant first meeting with Your Excellency and the joint statement that we signed together in Singapore 24 days ago was indeed the start of a meaningful journey. I deeply appreciate the energetic and extraordinary efforts made by Your Excellency Mr. President for the improvement of relations between the two countries and the faithful implementation of the joint statement. I firmly believe that the strong will, sincere efforts and unique approach of myself and Your Excellency Mr. President aimed at opening up a new future between the DPRK and the U.S. will surely come to fruition. Wishing that the invariable trust and confidence in Your Excellency Mr. President will be further strengthened in the future process of taking practical actions, I extend my conviction that the epochal process in promoting DPRK-U.S. relations will bring our next meeting forward.”For example, the header shows “H.E. Donald J. Trump”, for “His Excellency Donald J. Trump”. Is the use of Your Excellency simply meant as “Sir?”	Liberal
Tensions were high Thursday as FBI Agent Peter Strzok testified before the House Oversight Committee regarding his actions during the FBI investigation of Hillary Clinton and Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible collusion between the Russian government and the Trump campaign.Strzok faced particular scrutiny from House Republicans who saw hiscontroversial text messages to FBI lawyer Lisa Page as evidence of bias against President Donald Trump.One of the most heated exchanges occurred when House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) repeatedly insisted that it was bias that led to Strzok’s removal from the investigation by Mueller.Strzok passionately disagreed, assuring that neither he nor any other FBI agent on the investigation allowed personal opinions to inform any of their actions, maintaining that Special Counsel Mueller only removed him due to the possible appearance of bias. Strzok took Gowdy to task for insinuating that the FBI would ever let personal opinions affect its investigations.Watch the impassioned exchange below:The suggestion of improper political action from the FBI "deeply corrodes what the FBI is in American society, the effectiveness of their mission; and it is deeply destructive," FBI agent Peter Strzok says in a heated exchange https://t.co/n8WzNrmK3Z pic.twitter.com/CTTbele0yh— CNN (@CNN) July 12, 2018Democrats on the House Oversight Committee accused Gowdy of badgering Strzok. Nonetheless, Strzok’s reply was just as forceful and Americans across Twitter were grateful for it.This was an epic response, especially given under the enormously unprofessional badgering Strzok was subjected to by Gowdy. Strzok spoke from the heart and head, with clarity and conviction, which is easy to do when you have truth on your side. https://t.co/Oj3LL7sVgB— Wendy Wasserman Schultz (@dvorakoelling) July 12, 2018Trey Gowdy, being schooled by FBI Agent Strzok, who explains the context for his now-infamous text about stopping Trumps election was his belief the American people wouldnt elect Trump after he ridiculed an immigrant gold star military family. pic.twitter.com/QUJfPDNQEC— Joyce Alene (@JoyceWhiteVance) July 12, 2018I am in awe of Peter Strzok. The strength of character, that level of professionalism – that *genuine* patriotism – is shaming the GOP House Committee.  And the GOP across the board.What a relief to finally see a loyal American in that chamber.— Judy Ellis (@JudyWhaleCove) July 12, 2018The texts Gowdy and other House Republicans repeatedly referred to were exchanged in March of 2016. Strzok referred to then-candidate Donald Trump as a “loathsome human” and an “idiot,” in addition to other expressions of aversion toward the president.Strzok repeatedly insisted that the presence of personal opinions, especially those of an FBI agent, do not indicate that biased actions were taken:My presumption, based on that horrible, disgusting behavior that the American population would not elect somebody demonstrating that behavior to be President of the United States. It was in no way, unequivocally, any suggestion that me, the FBI, would take any action whatsoever to improperly impact the electoral process, for any candidate.Representative Gowdy’s exchange with Strzok was only one exchange in an especially discordant and often chaotic hearing.	Liberal
San Francisco’s first black female mayor, London Breed, was sworn in on Wednesday and issued a powerful message to President Donald Trump during her swearing-in speech.Breed took aim at the Trump administration’s policy of detaining the children of immigrants and asylum seekers, saying: “We are going to tell the president that here in San Franciscowe don’t put children in cages, we put them in the classrooms.”At her swearing-in ceremony, new San Francisco Mayor London Breed, a strong advocate of the city's sanctuary policies, says she has a message for Pres. Trump: "In San Francisco we don't put children in cages, we put them in the classrooms" https://t.co/3OTGkRDCb0 pic.twitter.com/OuVcRouCOD— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 12, 2018Breed was sworn in by California’s Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom (D).The Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” border policy, which was enacted by Attorney General Jeff Sessions in April, has resulted in thousands of migrant children being separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexican border.Last month, San Diego U.S. District Judge Dana Sabraw ordered the administration to reunite children under five with their families within 14 days. That deadline has passed. Hundreds of kids, many under the age of five, remain in government detention facilities. Sabraw gave a 30-day time frame for older children, but that time too has come and gone.Numerous reports from a litany of news outlets showed immigrant children being held in cage-like enclosures inside government detention facilities across the country. Lawmakers have regularly been denied access by the Department of Homeland Security.Twitter offered its congratulations to the new mayor and its support for her jab at the president.Thank You and Congratulations!— Marian Cruz (@mariancruz905) July 12, 2018CONGRATULATIONS, London Breed!!! So extraordinarily PROUD of, and for You!! Bravo!!— delroy lindo (@authenticdelroy) July 12, 2018Congratulations @LondonBreed!Continue to rise and lift others up. #SanFrancisco https://t.co/OBdN7hWHb1— Donna Brazile (@donnabrazile) July 12, 2018Someone even shot down a troll who tried to claim that in no U.S. city are “citizen children” locked in cages.“We only torture children who weren’t born here,” one follower of Breed wrote.You're right. We only torture children who weren't born here. Which I guess is an important distinction to some people.—    (@PersonalGenius) July 12, 2018https://twitter.com/_kathleen_alice/status/1017418981253079043California freshman Senator Kamala Harris (D) said Breed represents “the best of who we are as a city, county, state, and country.”Congratulations to my dear friend London Breed on being sworn in as Mayor of San Francisco. You have always represented the best of who we are as a city, county, state, and country. What a happy, historic moment!— Kamala Harris (@SenKamalaHarris) July 11, 2018House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) also weighed in, saying Breed upholds “the values that are held so closely by our SF community: equality, inclusivity & justice.”Wishing the very best to San Franciscos @LondonBreed as she historically becomes the first Black woman to serve as Mayor of our great city. We look forward to watching as she advances the values that are held so closely by our SF community: equality, inclusivity & justice. pic.twitter.com/PpZZsFxajn— Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) July 11, 2018“We need more working-class people of color in office.”@LondonBreed Congratulations on your win. We need more Working Class people of Color in office.  Lets work together to crush capitalism, and the evil and poverty Wall Street brings with its sick self centered philosophy of racism, white supremacy, and class bigotry.— Tony Buontempo (@TonyBuontempo) July 12, 2018Breed’s speech emphasized the importance of education and training students to be prepared to compete in the economy.Growing up in the Western Addition neighborhood, it never seemed possible that I could one day serve as Mayor. I would not be here today without the community that believed in me. I will do everything I can to afford those opportunities to the next generation. #SFMayor pic.twitter.com/3txRovgSQe— London Breed (@LondonBreed) July 11, 2018“I am committed to making sure all kids in high school have an opportunity for a paid internship, for job training,” Breed said, “so that they are a part of the future of this city.”	Liberal
President Donald Trump is scheduled to make his first official visit to the United Kingdom since taking office in January, 2017. In preparation for his Thursday, July 12 arrival, the citizens of the UK have come up with some clever ways to greet the United States leader.In London there will be an airborne giant inflatable Trump baby, in Sheffield there will be a ban on Trump and a Mexican fiesta thanks to the Lord Mayor and people across the UK are working to get Green Day’s song “American Idiot” to number one on the charts.And now, at Moak Farm inStoke Mandeville, a crop circle has been laid into the farm’s field by an undisclosed artist.Stoke Mandeville is a village and civil parish in the Vale of Aylesbury in Buckinghamshire, England.It also lies right on the flight path of the helicopter engaged to take the President and First Lady to a welcome reception at Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire hosted by Prime Minister Theresa May.The farm’s owner told local newspaper, The Bucks Herald:“I was approached by an artist, who wished to remain anonymous to use one of my crop fields. They were specifically looking for one in the flight path that Donald Trump will take when he comes to the UK this week.”“There was a financial transaction, I won’t say how much but it was remuneration for the damaged crops, which won’t be salvageable.”The artist created a crop circle, easily visible from a helicopter. And the message? TRUMP”For those not conversant in Russian, the message reads “FUCK TRUMP.” The crop circle is described as an “art installation” by the farm’s owner.The farmer himself however has no opinion on the visiting foreign leader, stating,A lot of people have asked me this, but my thoughts on Trump are completely neutral. For me it was a transaction between myself and the artist.”The unknown artist’s views appear obvious however based on their artwork.Work on the crop circle was done Sunday, July 8, and reportedly took 14 hours to complete in extremely hot weather. It measures 200 meters over 650 feet wide.The design was planned with a helicopter in mind. With a drone, photos were taken from 400 feet above the crop circle to get a president’s eye view.News of the artist’s work began to spread quickly.	Liberal
Russian state TV was thrilled with President Donald Trump’s contentious visit to NATO on Wednesday, culminating with commentator Tatyana Parkhalina saying she “never thought I’d live to see” an American president sow as much discord into the alliance as Trump did this week.Source: https://t.co/Bf6pTylXyI— Julia Davis (@JuliaDavisNews) July 11, 2018It translates to:“I never thought Id live to see thisneither the USSR nor Russia, who tried many times to drive the wedge between transatlantic allies but Washington is doing everything to break down the foundations of transatlantic alliance & unity.”#Russia's state TV:Tatyana Parkhalina:"I never thought Id live to see thisneither the USSR nor Russia, who tried many times to drive the wedge between transatlantic allies, but Washington is doing everything to break down the foundations of transatlantic alliance & unity." pic.twitter.com/AlG3QytN8S— Julia Davis (@JuliaDavisNews) July 11, 2018The segment was captured and translated by Julia Davis, an investigative journalist who founded the Russian Media Monitor, which tracks lies and propaganda fed to the press from the Russian government.Russian jubilation over Trump’s behavior at NATO drew calls on Twitter for Special Counsel Robert Mueller “drop the hammer” on any connection he has discovered between Trump, his presidential campaign, and if either colluded with the Russian government to steal the 2016 election.Paging Robert Mueller…It's time to drop the hammer, Bob.— Ryan (@Ghostbuster1031) July 11, 2018For some, the circumstantial evidence that the president has been in cahoots with the Russians is undeniable. “Impeach the traitor,” one user wrote.well past time. Subpoena the son of a bit@h already. Force him to come to the table or his refusal to testify will trigger the constitutional crisis we need to impeach the traitor.— Paul (@treehouseNY) July 11, 2018Another follower said Trump is following orders from Russian President Vladimir Putin to “bring down democracy across the board in the west.”The ManWhorian Candidate is working perfectly. Champagne will be popping in Russia after Trump follows through on his next orders from Putin, to bring down democracy across the board in the west.— cirebackward (@cirebackward) July 11, 2018He's been playing trump like a fiddle. Why csbt the cult45ists see it!— RebelRobyn (@Robyn2Rebel) July 11, 2018“Why are Trump supporters so blind?” another user asked, noting the president’s unwavering support among a sizeable portion of the American electorate.Russian News Lady gets it! Why are trump supporters so blind? Aside from a few who are a few bricks short of a load, they can't all be intellectually deficient! Mentally, that's another story!#SaveNATO #TrumpNATORampage #TRUMPRUSSIA #PutinsBitch #NoSCOTUSVote #Resistance #FBR— Barbara E Fuller (@soonerdreams) July 11, 2018This is Trump's legacy…..TREASON.— Lola Brown (@puppy550) July 11, 2018And then, of course, came the Trump-Putin bromance memes. pic.twitter.com/oVsHuoFvbl— Rob (Big Timber) Willeford (@rob_willeford) July 11, 2018https://twitter.com/waybettertimes/status/1017173817129684998https://twitter.com/waybettertimes/status/1017173170451898368Wednesday’s NATO summit in Brussels, Belgium began with Trump accusing Germany of being a captive of Russia, as well as making demands that NATO countries increase their contributions from two percent to four percent of their GDPs.	Liberal
French President Emmanuel Macron has rejected President Donald Trump’s claim that North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies have agreed to boost defense spending beyond 2 percent of their gross domestic product.The additional money that theyre willing to put up has been really amazing, Trump said yesterday, without providing specifics. Yesterday I let them know that I was extremely unhappy with what was happening, and they have substantially upped their commitment.Macron, however, disagreed.“There is a communique that was published yesterday. It’s very detailed,” Macron said.“It confirms the goal of 2 percent by 2024. That’s all.”The document to which Macron refers, published Wednesday before an impromptu crisis meeting during which Trump claimed NATO is “stronger than ever,”states that allies have started to increase the amount they spend on defense in real terms and “some two-thirds of allies have national plans in place to spend 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense by 2024.”The French leader stressed thathe did not believe it would be a good idea for NATO allies to raise their defense spending to 4 percent of GDP from 2 percent, as Trump had suggested.Macron also waved away reports that Trump threatened to withdraw the United States from the NATO military alliance over a funding dispute.President Trump never at any moment, either in public or in private, threatened to withdraw from NATO, Macron said.Romanian President Klaus Iohannis echoed Macron’s remarks and denied that Trump had pushed for NATO allies to increase their spending.Trump said things plainly as is normal between friends and allies. … We committed ourselves to spending a bit more,” Iohannis toldAssociated Press reporters.Political tensions have risen at the NATO conference, particularly as President Trump, who once declared NATOa formal alliance between the United States and European nations to defend each other from the possibility of the communist Soviet Union taking control of their territories”obsolete,” has ramped up attacks against the organization in recent days.Before his trip to Europe, the president published tweets which criticized NATO allies for what he believes are lopsided defense commitments.Getting ready to leave for Europe. First meeting – NATO. The U.S. is spending many times more than any other country in order to protect them. Not fair to the U.S. taxpayer. On top of that we lose $151 Billion on Trade with the European Union. Charge us big Tariffs (& Barriers)!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2018NATO countries must pay MORE, the United States must pay LESS. Very Unfair!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2018But alliance funding does not work the way the president believes it works. As CNN’s Ryan Brown points out:For collective defense to work, the 29 members have to keep their armed forces in good shape, so NATO sets an official target on how much they should spend, which they call a “guideline.” That stands at 2% of GDP.There is no penalty for not meeting the 2% target. Each country decides how much it is going to spend and what it will spend on. If one country spends less or more than the guideline, other countries are not obliged to follow suit.And despite Trump’s repeated suggestion that NATO members owe the US, members do not pay each other.Brown points out that NATO members “do contribute to a collective budget for the alliance,” and that there is a “civilian budget of about $286 million for 2018, used mainly to fund the NATO headquarters in Belgium and its administration,” as well as “a military budget of $1.54 billion for 2018, which is used to fund some operations and the NATO strategic command center, as well as training and research.” But, he observes:	Liberal
Disgraced former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn experienced a full circle moment today.Nearly two years after Flynn railed against Hillary Clintonwith chants of “Lock her up!”in a speech at the 2016 Republican National Convention, protesters outside of a D.C. federal courthouse got their revenge, shouting “Lock him up!” as Flynn exited his vehicle.Flynn was arriving to the courthouse for a hearing after pleading guilty to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation late last year about his interactions with Russian Ambassador Sergey I. Kislyak.Michael Flynn appeared in court to competing chants of "Lock him up!" and "We're with you, General Flynn!"The hearing didnt provide a resolution to Flynn's legal battles or additional information about his cooperation in the ongoing Russia probe https://t.co/FITcucrgUx pic.twitter.com/EkFJtvlerM— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) July 10, 2018The protesters repeated the chants when Flynn left as well.Michael Flynn departs DC District Court this morning to shouts of lock him up from protestors. Considering he led the "lock her up" chants in 2016 at the RNC, I am high-fiving Karma. pic.twitter.com/DWoJY0a8Hj— Amee Vanderpool (@girlsreallyrule) July 10, 2018In Flynn’s famous “Lock her up” speech, he also claimed, “If I did a tenth of what [Hillary Clinton] did, I would be in jail today. While the exhaustive investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server ultimately found no criminal wrongdoing and led to no arrests, Flynn’s admission of lying to the FBI could result in five to eight years in federal prison.Many on Twitter savored the poetic justice.Poetic justice. After issuing his guilty plea, Michael Flynn exits courthouse to chants of Lock him up.pic.twitter.com/jFeXOhjQG1— Rob Bennett (@rob_bennett) December 1, 2017New heights of poetic justice with absolute joy.— Rita Shuker (@MissesBun) July 10, 2018Lock him up! Flynn how do you feel now?— Argelia Haickel (@AHaickel) July 11, 2018I've never felt less sorry for someone than when Michael Flynn walked out of his sentencing hearing while protestors shouted "Lock him up!" Karma's a bigger beeyotch than Hillary ever could've been (I don't even like her but the GOP iz fucking ridiculous)https://t.co/l1kOMU1ToM— ~Gwyzard the Teal~ (@GwyddionZ) July 11, 2018I love the irony….Michael Flynn once led a "locker her up" chant at the Republican convention https://t.co/D7awZSID1w— James Woods Coke Dealer (@OliverDWolf) July 11, 2018Protestors chanted "lock him up" as Michael Flynn left the courthouse today. Gotta love poetic justice. pic.twitter.com/itYOWbU5OR— Adam Best (@adamcbest) July 10, 2018Lock HIM up. pic.twitter.com/l0Dpm9Nc7B— ChuckGoodLuck (@carloshzuniga) July 11, 2018The irony is delicious. #LockHimUp https://t.co/US5i80xiBp— Angry Democrat #14 (@KingAComedy) July 10, 2018Flynn’s guilty plea in 2017 was one of the most significant moments of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible collusion between Russia and now-President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign.	Liberal
American voters picked Barack Obama as the best president “in their lifetimes” according to a new Pew Research Center Poll released on Wednesday.Poll: Americans rank Obama as the best president in their lifetime https://t.co/JBzTbiLtGF pic.twitter.com/zoTqgsIaDB— The Hill (@thehill) July 11, 2018In a survey of 2,002 voters conducted from June 5-12, 31% said Obama had “done the best job in their lifetimes.” Forty-four percent of respondents chose the 44th president as their first or second favorite.https://twitter.com/SpicyDemocrat/status/1017129814023655424By contrast, only 10 percent of participants chose President Donald Trump, who begins his 18th month in office next Friday, as the best president in their lifetimes. Twelve percent ranked him as the second best.“Not yet halfway through his term, 19% say Donald Trump has done the best or second best job of any president of their lifetimes,” Pew wrote.President Bill Clinton received a 33 percent share of the vote, and Ronald Reagan landed in third place with 32 percent across both categories.As for which president was number one, the poll showed 31 percent for Obama, 21 percent for Reagan, and 13 percent for Clinton.Trump didn’t fare all that well among Republicans, with only 40 percent ranking him as their top pick, compared to 57 percent who chose Reagan.In contrast, 71 percent of Democratic respondents said Obama was the best president in their lifetimes, with Clinton in second place with 49 percent.	Liberal
Former White House photographer Pete Souza has revealed the cover of his upcoming photo bookand President Donald Trump won’t like it.Souza revealed back in May that he didn’t know what the slang term “throwing shade”the term here means “veiled insultmeant, but that it influencedthe cover for his upcoming book,SHADE: A Tale of Two Presidents.And now the cover is available for all to view.“If you’ve been following myInstagram feed since the last inauguration, then you have an idea what this book is about (but of course there will be some surprises),” Souza wrote on Instagram.And people ate it up.Oh my gosh. Pete Souza is coming out with a book of his best shade throwing IG posts!!! #shade pic.twitter.com/ID9VDGR1VV— karinchu (@karinchu) July 11, 2018Pete Souza is publishing a book called SHADE. I love him to bits.— Breasted Boobily (@Author_DLWhite) July 11, 2018It's amazing to think that @PeteSouza didn't even know what the word meant when he started throwing the best of it… #shadePreorder link: https://t.co/PvVF6FVjkw pic.twitter.com/o4jCkq4QBS— Abbie Bridges (@Abbie_not_Abby_) July 11, 2018https://twitter.com/LeoLawGirl/status/1017118752096190464I just pre-ordered @PeteSouzas new book, Shade. His IG feed has always been amazing but over the past year and a half it has provided me with many much needed chuckles and reminders. I am so stoked for this book. — shelihiggins (@shelihiggins) July 11, 2018Shade, which is scheduled to be released on October 16, willvividly show where we are as a country contrasted with where we were, Souza announced in May.He added:I have been distressed by the barrage of lies and hateful comments emanating from the current administration on a daily basis. We have a president who clearly does not understand democracy and the rule of law. To him, a critical news story is fake news, and our intelligence agencies are all corrupt. His presidency has become a reality game show, with his primal need to achieve ratings and winsfor himself. He does not respect women, minorities and immigrants.I have worked for two presidents in my lifeone Republican (Reagan) and one Democrat (Obama). I spent almost every day with President Obama during his two terms, watching how hard he worked on behalf of all Americans. He wasand still issomeone who respected people from all walks of life. He made decisions based on facts. He respected democracy and the rule of law. Unlike his successor, he respected the office of the presidency.	Liberal
President Donald Trump is in Brussels, Belgium meeting with NATO allies and a “family picture” of the president and leaders of the 28 other member nations perfectly sums up the strained relationship the United States now has with Europe.The photo was captured Wednesday afternoon following a summit Trump attended with European leaders. It shows Trump staring off into the sky in the complete opposite direction compared to where every other representative was facing.This photo is the perfect metaphor. Donald Trump clearly sees the world the wrong way when compared to other NATO leaders. Is it because hes a moron, because Putin tells him to or a mixture of both? pic.twitter.com/RRGCN0Hw70— Adam Best (@adamcbest) July 11, 2018Critics of the president on Twitter lambasted Trump for the picture, calling him “too stupid to follow directions.”too stupid to follow simple directions— Thomas Steeg (@SteegVan) July 11, 2018https://twitter.com/janet_yackle/status/1017064788193574919It's because he is a #fuckingmoronPeriod#AdultDayCare#UnfitForOffice— JuuuustSayin (@juuuust_sayin) July 11, 2018“What does OTAN mean?” Oy.https://twitter.com/mickeefynn/status/1017053793287114752Photographer to NATO Leaders: "Okay, if everyone can look to their left please."— RandymH (@RandymH) July 11, 2018Trump: Where is the shiny object? I cant see it. Rest of the World: No fool, its there, but you cant see it because you are looking in the wrong direction.— PatsyDryden  (@Patta47cake) July 11, 2018One person noted the similarity between the NATO picture and an image of Trump staring at last year’s total solar eclipse without sunglasses, whichhe was explicitly instructed not to do.He's looking for the solar eclipse, pining for burning retinas.— James Sanyshyn (@JamesSanyshyn) July 11, 2018I think Trump discovered that he has a hole in his brain–not that his looking up at the eclipse did it, but that the looking up revealed that no damage could possibly take place because there was already a hole in his brain.  @realdonaldtrump is a walking lobotomized manniquin. https://t.co/IpWEFRH569— Craig (@cabresch) July 5, 2018Others wondered if Trump was trying to see the giant baby Trump blimp which is set to fly over London during his visit to the United Kingdom on Friday.So this is what Trump was looking for. Mystery solved! pic.twitter.com/c9E3xGSecY— Guy Verhofstadt (@guyverhofstadt) July 11, 2018Is his looking up at the baby Trump blimp?— Lorin M.G. (@Loringal1) July 11, 2018You know, sometimes we just need a chuckle to break up all the negatives, all the meanness, all the nastiness with which we are bombarded daily. Looking at this balloon does it for me. Not only is it spot on and funny as heck but tells us we are not alone. https://t.co/cHBuPnqcNf— Angie Best (@Bestcabingirl) July 7, 2018The NATO summit had a contentious start after Trump accused Germany of being “a captive of Russia,” as well as making demands that NATO countries increase their contributions from two percent to four percent of their GDPs.I think its very sad when Germany makes a massive oil and gas deal with Russia, where youre supposed to be guarding against Russia and Germany goes out and pays billions and billions of dollars a year to Russia, Trump said. They will be getting between 60 and 70 percent of their energy from Russia and a new pipeline, and you tell me if that is appropriate because I think its not.German Chancellor Angela Merkel fired back, citing her experience growing up in Soviet-controlled East Germany:Because of given circumstances, I want to point out one thing: I experienced the Soviet occupation of one part of Germany myself.I am very happy that today we are united in freedom, the Federal Republic of Germany. Because of that we can say that we can make our independent policies and make independent decisions. That is very good, especially for people in eastern Germany.	Liberal
A political cartoon titled Rescue Effort Still Underway to Save Boys Trapped in America by artist Pia Guerra is making the rounds on social media. Guerra’s image, depicting child detainees in the United States watching the rescue of children in Thailand on TV, was first posted on Twitter by The Nib.Rescue effort still underway to save boys trapped in America.From @PiaGuerra ? https://t.co/GAtWolgoBX pic.twitter.com/nAEIPGDKD0 The Nib (@thenib) July 9, 2018The Vancouver based artist “does editorial cartoons for relaxation and retribution.”Inspiration for the cartoon may come from two images taken back in 2014 at the McAllen, Texas, Border Patrol detention center for unaccompanied children. Unaccompanied children are those that entered the United States without any family members. Back in 2014 tens of thousands of people fled Honduras for the United States, including thousands of unaccompanied children.The powerful images which feature the same little boy watching television struck a chord with the public, both times they were heavily used, first in 2014 and again in 2018.News media looked for relevant images for stories covering President Donald Trump’s zero tolerance policy for everyone entering the US without prior authorization. The policy, enacted by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and enforced by Homeland Security head Kirstjen Nielsen, eventually lead to almost 3,000 children being separated from their families.But no photos of the Trump administration’s child detainees were available because the media was not initially allowed into detention centers. So the photos from 2014 were resurrected.But regardless of the story behind the photos, they etched themself into the minds of many. They bear a strong resemblance to Guerra’s cartoon. Except now there are many more children in the picture, both in the cartoon and in reality. Child detention centers experienced extreme overcrowding after Trump’s zero tolerance policy went into effect.Author Colin Dickey addressed why people in the United States followed the story from Thailand so closely, suggesting people had made parallels in their own minds between two sets of children half a world away from each other.…kids in the Thai cave has become, for US media, a repressed proxy for Trump’s child separation policy. People want a feel-good story about kids being rescued where the villain is nature, so they don’t have to acknowledge how America’s border tragedy is manmade[sic].”Weird how the kids in the Thai cave has become, for US media, a repressed proxy for Trump’s child separation policy. People want a feel-good story about kids being rescued where the villain is nature, so they don’t have to acknowledge how America’s border tragedy is manmade. Colin Dickey (@colindickey) July 9, 2018Sure I want those kids rescued from that cave too, but the focus on that story considering all else that’s going on is the height of journalistic malpractice. But because it’s a story about child endangerment with a relatively simple fix and there are no bad guys, it’s easy. Colin Dickey (@colindickey) July 9, 2018By @PiaGuerra: https://t.co/CZKTccKPYv pic.twitter.com/7dcDodFhMb Colin Dickey (@colindickey) July 9, 2018Heartbreaking stuff from @PiaGuerra. pic.twitter.com/DKaAbdWr5S Amy Berg (@bergopolis) July 9, 2018Reaction to Guerra’s cartoon is partly linked to the immediate recognition and reaction to the now familiar photos of the child in a cage watching TV as well as current images of overcrowded child detention facilities with children huddled on floors.But it’s also due to recognizing being distracted by children in peril in another part of the world where there can be heroes and the villain is identifiable and the answers are easy.	Liberal
There are few things President Donald Trump isn’t willing to emblazon with his name, but even he hasn’t endorsed this one.Uralasbest, a Russian asbestos mining firm, recently touted on Facebook that it has begun stamping shipments with President Trump’s face and a message:Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States.”Behold:(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v3.0';  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));   !     :     …Posted by  "" on Sunday, June 24, 2018The remarkable English translation:Donald is on our side!The Factory ” Uralasbest ” released an unusual batch of chrysotile: on the package of palletov with the mineral, the stamp ” approved by Donald Trump, the 45th President of the united states “. in such an unusual way, the workers of the asbestoobogatitelnoj factory of the factory thanked us President Donald . He supported the head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt, who stated that his office would no longer deal with the negative effects potentially derived from products containing asbestos. Donald Trump supported a specialist and called asbestos “100 percent safe after application”. ” we have come out with the initiative – to support our hrizotilovu industry in this way and to remind that our ” Mountain Len ” is an important mineral for the world. Management Approved!”,-told at the factory.It’s no wonder the asbestos company is showing gratitude toward the American president. The Trump administration recently moved to dismantle the current ban on new asbestos products and the EPA has agreed to consider new uses for the substance, much to the chagrin of environmental activists. Uralasbest mentions the relaxation of these restrictions in its post.Asbestos was once a commonly used material in the construction industry, however evidence has consistently shown that fibers from damaged asbestos products can lead to a variety of cancers and other conditions like mesothelioma and pleuritis. Around 15,000 Americans die a year from asbestos exposure or conditions stemming from it.Despite a wealth of scientific evidenceconfirming the health risks of asbestos fibers, there are those that defend the material. Donald Trump has been one of them, having written in 1997 that opposition to asbestos was engineered by the mob.He also tweeted this little number in 2012:. @realDonaldTrump As a #mesothelioma widow I urge you to retract or correct your comment about deadly #asbestos pic.twitter.com/3aILI7yHNo— Linda Reinstein (@Linda_ADAO) May 30, 2016It’s easy to see why Uralasbest believes the president is on their side. Even Americans on Twitter seemed to agree that Trump asbestos was somewhat appropriate.That's actually a very good idea. Poor skulls and bones have been so overused. Putting an image of Trump on something immediately makes it clear that it is toxic.— FreisinnigeZeitung (@FreisinnigeZtg) July 11, 2018How appropriate to put that mug on asbestos!— Jules Lind (@lind_jules) July 11, 2018The Russian Seal of Toxicity!— jeffwhallin (@jwhallin) July 11, 2018Toxic products should have his toxic image on them. The new skull and crossbones — American Sanity (@NOCRAZYALLOWED) July 11, 2018Fitting, it's a cancerous product, like @realDonaldTrump.— FRESH TAKE (@1FreshTake) July 11, 2018The Trump administration’s willingness to consider asbestos products is a step away from past administrations.	Liberal
Distinguished alumni is a phrase you see and hear often in relation to higher education. All levels of post-secondary schools trade on the commodity of their distinguished alumni.Just as a famous surgeon can draw attention, alumni donations and new students to a medical school, an esteemed Juris Doctor can do the same for a law school.In the United States, there is no higher achievement for a lawyer than an appointment to the highest judicial body, the Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS). Those schools lucky enough to have alumni assume roles on that bench use that achievement in the promotion of their own programs and personal prestige for their institutions.Yale University, founded in 1701, and Yale Law School saw 10 alumni and 8 graduates become SCOTUS justices. And now they’re looking at another distinguished alumnus, in Brett Kavanaugh, potentially donning those robes.President Donald Trump selected Kavanaugh as his nominee to replace retiring justice Anthony Kennedy. Kavanaugh graduated from Yale Law School in 1990.When news of the nomination was released to the public, the Dean of Yale Law School, Heather Gerken,issued a press release praising Kavanaugh asa “longtime friend to many of us in the Yale Law School community.”But alumni, faculty and students of the school are pushing back, stating there are more important things than adding to your roster of distinguished alumni.The open letter addressed to “Dean Gerken and the Yale Law School leadership” gained over 320 current and former Yale Law School student and faculty signatures and is still gathering signatures online.It states:“We write today as Yale Law students, alumni, and educators ashamed of our alma mater. Within an hour of Donald Trumps announcement that he would nominate Brett Kavanaugh, YLS 90, to the Supreme Court, the law school published a press release boasting of its alumnuss accomplishment. The schools post included quotes from Yale Law School professors about Judge Kavanaughs intellect, influence and mentorship of their students.”Yet the press release’s focus on the nominee’s professionalism, pedigree, and service to Yale Law School obscures the true stakes of his nomination and raises a disturbing question: Is there nothing more important to Yale Law School than its proximity to power and prestige?”“Judge Kavanaughs nomination presents an emergency  for democratic life, for our safety and freedom, for the future of our country. His nomination is not an interesting intellectual exercise to be debated amongst classmates and scholars in seminar.”Support for Judge Kavanaugh is not apolitical. It is a political choice about the meaning of the constitution and our vision of democracy, a choice with real consequences for real people.”Without a doubt, Judge Kavanaugh is a threat to the most vulnerable. He is a threat to many of us, despite the privilege bestowed by our education, simply because of who we are.”And this is only the beginning, the first three paragraphs of the 10 paragraph letter.	Liberal
The U.S. embassy in London has issued a warning to American citizens to “keep a low profile” during President Donald Trump’s visit to the United Kingdom later this week.The US embassy has taken the unusual step of issuing a warning to American citizens in the UK to "keep a low profile" during the visit of President Trump https://t.co/ZtUGw954gl pic.twitter.com/CkTIig0M2q— CNN (@CNN) July 11, 2018The embassy issued a statement on Tuesday outlining “actions to take” should Americans find themselves entrenched in anti-Trump demonstrations, which are scheduled to take place Thursday through Saturday as the president tours the country.@JoeNBC Thoughts on this Joe? The US Embassy in UK issuing warning to US Citizens to keep a low profile.  I dont know a single Brit that likes Trump but equally not one that would take it out on a US Citizen. Disgusting. pic.twitter.com/AKGLj3Aps5— Chris Keaveny (@KeavenyChris) July 11, 2018“Be aware of your surroundings,” the statement reads, urging visitors from the U.S. to “exercise caution if unexpectedly in the vicinity of large gatherings that may become violent.”The embassy also encourages Americans to “keep a low profile.”An US President is heading to Great Britain. Americans there, in GB, are warned to take a LOW PROFILE. (Thatd be hard for a Texan to do). Least their, American, presence causes problems. All due to TRUMP. R U KIDDING ME? https://t.co/uQCD7gOZhj— Kirk Pitman (@iamTexasBred) July 10, 2018Trump will arrive in the U.K. on Thursday, traveling to Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire, where he will attend a black tie dinner with Prime Minister Theresa May. A small protest is slated to take place during the dinner.Trump and First Lady Melania may also encounter demonstrators outside the U.S. ambassador’s residence in Regent’s Park, where the couple will stay Thursday night into Friday.Trump and May will have lunch on Friday at Chequers, the Prime Minister’s summer residence.The biggest protest will be the “Stop Trump” march on Friday, during which a giant baby Trump blimp is set to fly over London. Mayor of London Sadiq Khan signed off on the blimp’s flight earlier this month.Trump’s plans to visit London during his three-day tour of the U.K. were canceled last week in order to shield him from the swath of demonstrations that are scheduled to take place in the British capital.Snowflake president.— brian (@sentient02970) July 11, 2018“As well as in London, protests are expected to take place in Bristol, Newcastle, Leeds, Cambridge, and Cardiff after Trump arrives on Thursday,” CNN reported on Wednesday.	Liberal
German Chancellor Angela Markel rejected President Donald Trump’s claims that Germany “is totally controlled by Russia” by recallingher own youth in Soviet-dominated East Germany and defending her nation’s independence and policies.Trump made his remarks ahead ofa NATO leaders summit in Brussels this morning. He specifically cited thecontroversial Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project, an offshorenatural gaspipelinefromVyborg in theRussian FederationtoGreifswaldinGermany.I think its very sad when Germany makes a massive oil and gas deal with Russia, where youre supposed to be guarding against Russia and Germany goes out and pays billions and billions of dollars a year to Russia, Trump said.He added: “They will be getting between 60 and 70 percent of their energy from Russia and a new pipeline, and you tell me if that is appropriate because I think it’s not.”TRUMP: Germany is totally controlled by Russia  They will be getting between 60 and 70 percent of their energy from Russia and a new pipeline, and you tell me if that is appropriate because I think it's not." pic.twitter.com/VKkexpCEn1— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) July 11, 2018Merkel responded shortly afterward.Because of given circumstances, I want to point out one thing: I experienced the Soviet occupation of one part of Germany myself.I am very happy that today we are united in freedom, the Federal Republic of Germany. Because of that we can say that we can make our independent policies and make independent decisions. That is very good, especially for people in eastern Germany.Angela Merkel: "I've experienced myself a part of Germany controlled by the Soviet Union, and Im very happy today that we are united in freedom … and can thus say that we can determine our own policies and make our own decisions and thats very good." https://t.co/5Ro9JTSLbU— Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) July 11, 2018Prickly reply to Trump from Angela Merkel:I myself have experienced Soviet control over part of Germany.But Germany lives united in freedom, and for that reason we can make make sovereign decisions. Thats a very good thing, especially for people in the former east.— Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) July 11, 2018Merkel also struck down Trump’s claims that the United States spends too much on defense, while other NATO members spend too little.“Germany contributes a lot… Germany is the second largest provider of troops, the largest part of our military capacity is offered to NATO and until today we have a strong engagement toward Afghanistan. In that we also defend the interests of the United States,” she said.She concluded her statements by announcing Germany’s plan to increase its defense spending:We are willing to increase our defense spending as agreed in Wales. By 2028, we will have increased spending by 28 percent since 2014. Given those facts, I confidently join this summit.Merkel’s statements appear to have fallen on deaf ears; reporters have confirmed the president’s intention to meet with Merkel and “reiterate his morning assertion” that Germany is controlled by Russia.Just in: Trump will meet privately with Angela Merkel this afternoon in a pull-aside at NATO and plans to reiterate his morning assertion that Germany is captive to Russia, @PressSec told pooler @juliehdavis.— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) July 11, 2018Trump will meet individually this afternoon with Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron, per Sarah Sanders.— Josh Dawsey (@jdawsey1) July 11, 2018Per @PressSec Trump will have "pull-aside" meetings with both German Chancellor Angela Merkel & French President Emmanuel Macron on the NATO summit sideline. Will raise the natural gas issue he spoke about earlier directly w Merkel— Julie Davis (@juliehdavis) July 11, 2018The president’s claim that the United States’ NATO commitments are too overbearing is also misleading. It was Merkel who, along with President Obama, raised NATO spending in 2014 after Vladimir Putin’s forces invaded Ukraine and annexed Crimea.The NATO summit is certain to define a rocky week for international diplomacy, and the president’s comments come mere weeks after Canada, through its Foreign Affairs Minister, rejected Trump’s call for Russia to be readmitted into the “Group of 7,” a group of the seven largest advanced economies in the world.	Liberal
Ever since English actor, screenwriter and producer Sacha Baron Cohen tweeted a video on July 4, 2018, featuring President Donald Trump, fans wondered what the comedic talent was up to. He was rumored to have a program coming to Showtime soon.On Monday, Matt Drudge, the editor and creator of The Drudge Report, tweeted:“Sacha Baron Cohen at it again! This time for CBS/SHOWTIME. Lots of tricks played. Both Republicans and Democrats are getting caught up in the madness. Sacha has finked Cheney, Palin, Howard Dean, Alberto Gonzales, Bernie, Trent Lott, Patraeus, Ted Koppel, and more BEWARE!”Sacha Baron Cohen at it again! This time for CBS/SHOWTIME. Lots of tricks played. Both Republicans and Democrats are getting caught up in the madness. Sacha has finked Cheney, Palin, Howard Dean, Alberto Gonzales, Bernie, Trent Lott, Patraeus, Ted Koppel, and more BEWARE! MATT DRUDGE (@DRUDGE) July 9, 2018And one of the people on that list took to social media Tuesday to express their outrage.Sarah Palin conservative pundit, public speaker and former Republican Vice Presidential candidate posted a long rant on Facebook directed at Cohen, CBS and Showtime with a screenshot of Drudge’s tweet.“Yup – we were duped,” Palin’s post begins. “Ya got me, Sacha. Feel better now?”I join a long list of American public personalities who have fallen victim to the evil, exploitive [sic], sick ‘humor’ of the British ‘comedian’ Sacha Baron Cohen, enabled and sponsored by CBS/Showtime.”In the post, Palin claims she and her daughter were lured to Washington, DC, under false pretenses by Cohen to honor veterans.“This ‘legit opportunity’ to honor American Vets and contribute to a ‘legit Showtime historical documentary’ was requested of me via a speakers bureau,” Palin states. She then says the interview bothered her so greatly that she removed her microphone and stopped the interview.Palin then issues several challenges to Cohen and CBS/Showtime, while referring to the performer as boy and taking jabs at Cohen’s manliness.	Liberal
Fox News commentator Judge Andrew Napolitano, usually a reliable Trump booster, took to Fox and Friends on Tuesday to slam President Donald Trump for his decision to nominate Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.Napolitano, who works at Fox as a senior judicial analyst, told the panel he was “disappointed in the president,” sayingKavanaugh “is not the type of person [Trump] said he’d pick.”ANDREW NAPOLITANO: The Washington establishment, sometimes known as the swamp, wanted Judge Kavanaugh, and the people around the president wanted Judge Kavanaugh, led by Don McGahn, the White House legal counsel, long-time friend of Judge Kavanaugh, and they prevailed.PETE HEGSETH: So you’re saying it’s a swamp pick?NAPOLITANO:Yes.Disappointed By Kavanaugh: Hes Heart and Soul of the DC Establishmenthttps://t.co/Q9AEAa4dxm— Judge Napolitano (@Judgenap) July 10, 2018Hes pro-life. Hes pro-gun. Hes pro-police, which rankles civil libertarians,Napolitanoadded. Hes also pro-Obamacare. Hes also, well, an infant might have the right to abortion. An infant immigrant might have the right to abortion. He [thinks] we can impeach the president if he lies to the public.’These are not my words. These are words that hes said throughout his career, he concluded. He is at heart and soul, a big government guy.Kavanaugh has written that a sitting president should not be subjected to criminal investigations while in office.Indicting a sitting president would ill serve the public interest, especially in times of financial or national-security crisis, Kavanaugh wrote in 2009.If the president does something dastardly, he wrote, the impeachment process is available.#Trump picked Kavanaugh because he believes that "presidents should not be distracted by investigations and lawsuits". WPost, Wash, DC: Nash Holdings LLC. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved June 30, 2018. See Kranish; Marimow (June 29, 2018). "Top Supreme Court prospect"— robert dresdner (@soldiershomenow) July 10, 2018Kavanaugh has also issued opinions on the constitutionality of Roe v Wade, which guaranteed women the right to abortion. He has said he considers the 1973Supreme Court ruling to be binding, though he does support some restrictions on abortion.Napolitano believes Kavanaugh “will be confirmed” by the Senate, though he expects “some fire from the right.”On the Affordable Care Act:Although the D.C. Circuit, in the case ofSeven-Sky v. Holder, upheld the Affordable Care Act as legitimate under the Commerce Clauselegislation which empowers Congress to regulate interstate commerceKavanaugh dissented based on his belief that the court did not have jurisdiction to hear the case. He cited1867s Anti-Injunction Act, which prohibits people from challenging taxes until after theyve paid them. (Kavanaughviewed the individual mandate as a tax thatcould not be challenged until the first mandate penalties were levied in the spring of 2015.)Napolitano also revived a conspiracy theory about Vince Foster, a deputy white house counsel who served President Bill Clinton during the early months of his administration. Foster committed suicide in 1993, but his death sparked rumors that the Clintons murdered him in the White House and disposed of his body in a park.Fox News Napolitano Ties Kavanaugh to Wild Conspiracy Theory About Vince Fosters Death https://t.co/PDkMkYYqQj pic.twitter.com/EqY4CWchDw— Mediaite (@Mediaite) July 10, 2018These stories have been thoroughly debunked, however that didn’t stop the judge from tying Foster’s death to Kavanaugh. Trump has also peddled this unfounded allegation.You remember Vince Foster who killed himself in the White House? Napolitano asked. How did his body get from the White House to Fort Marcy Park?Who was the prosecutor in charge of figuring out how his body got there? Who was the prosecutor that exonerated Hillary and the thugs that moved his body? A young Brett Kavanaugh.	Liberal
As though the Trump administration’s policy of separating immigrant children from their parents wasn’t already disturbing enough, the administration recently admitted in a relevantcourt filing that at least one of the children under five — and the parent from whom the child was separated — could possibly be United States Citizens.Brad Heath, an investigative reporter for USA Today, analyzed the filing on Twitter and broke it down for his followers.The revelation that the Trump administration could essentially be kidnapping its own citizens was by far the most shocking finding.DOJ says one child under 5 can't be reunited because "the parent's location has been unknown for more than a year." Also, both the parent and the child who's been in the government's custody "might be U.S. citizens." pic.twitter.com/gOCO0jCY8O— Brad Heath (@bradheath) July 10, 2018The administration still won’t disclose just how many separated minors remain in the care of Health and Human Services since President Trump withdrew his separation policy two weeks ago,but the number is believed to be in the thousands.Americans took to Twitter to express their outrage.This is what happens when rogue agencies like ICE go unchecked. US Citizen child likely kidnapped and detained. https://t.co/SQnYM2jQUM— Comrade Linda Brown (@LaBrownAZ) July 10, 2018U.S. citizens?!? What the hell?!?!?— Stephanie (@SwannDives) July 10, 2018Will SOMEONE please find out WHAT THE HELL is going on and FIX it, pronto! The judge is giving them too much leniency, he needs to throw down his gavel & DEMAND answers & accountability, NOW! And @neilson needs to RESIGN!— Janet McDonald (@YuleeJanet) July 10, 2018And wondered why there isn’t more outrage.So they are saying that they MAY have a US Citizen in custody without due process and no one is saying much?WTF?This would be a Constitutional fiasco of biblical proportions!!— Jim Berman (@BigEasyDaddy) July 10, 2018Some are less surprised.https://twitter.com/AlOtroLado_Org/status/1016755455396212736"Might be US citizens". Were detained and separated anyway.Gee, interesting judgment call there — b-psycho is tired of poverty (@bpsycho1) July 10, 2018This is just the latest in a string of horror stories coming out of the detention camps and at the hands of ICE.	Liberal
Donald Trump has named Brett Kavanaugh as his nominee to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy on the Supreme Court. His record, which includes a dissenting opinion on a 2017 case involving a teen migrant who was seeking an abortion, leads experts to believe its only a matter of time before Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling that legalized abortion, is overturned or new laws put in place that change the scope of its protections. This not only would affect women and girls who are faced with an unwanted pregnancy, it would have widespread impacts on U.S. economics, health care, society and culture. Everything from crime rates to dating norms would be affected. Heres how.Roe v. Wade was a 1973 ruling decided by the Supreme Court. That means all 50 states are governed by this decision, which states that women and girls have the right to a safe, legal abortion without undue restrictive interference from the government. It is considered part of an individuals right to privacy, which falls under the 14th Amendment. However, in many states, government does interfere, through a variety of individual rulings and restrictions, most imposed within the past 10 years, making abortion effectively illegal for many of their residents. Such rulings have led to the closure of clinics that provide safe and legal abortion; restrictions on health care providers; restrictions on access to information about the procedure; and restrictions on who is eligible to receive abortion services, and when, and after what series of interventions or delays. In 2017 alone, 19 states passed 63 abortion restrictions. Since 2012, 400 laws have been passed to restrict access. Six states have only one abortion provider, which means patients have to travel hundreds of miles; in states like South Dakota, that doctor has to fly in from another state. Therefore, abortion remains only legal in theory in places where it is in practice impossible for many women to access it. The new Supreme Court could further impact access to safe, legal abortion in two ways: By placing reproduction under government control and by placing access to abortion and contraception access under the control of ones fellow citizens religious beliefs. We already know how Brett Kavanaugh would rule on Roe v. Wade, because the president told us so,” said Dawn Laguens, the executive vice president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, referring to Trump’s promise during the 2016 presidential campaign to nominate “pro-life justices” whose votes would undo Roe “automatically.”Overturning or weakening Roe v. Wade would not make abortion illegal everywhere in the U.S.; It would turn the issue over to individual states. Four states Mississippi, Louisiana, North Dakota, and South Dakota  have trigger laws now in place that would come into immediate effect to make abortion illegal in those states the second Roe v. Wade is overturned. Another 10 states have pre-existing laws outlawing abortion that were made null by Roe v. Wade. If the federal law fell, the state laws would come back into effect, outlawing abortion in Massachusetts, New Mexico, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Michigan, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Utah and Wisconsin. Another seven states Arkansas, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, North Dakota and Ohiohave laws that express their intent to restrict the right to legal abortion to the maximum extent permitted by the U.S. Supreme Court in the absence ofRoe. The end of federal protections opens the doors to the passage of additional state laws restricting or banning abortion.Installing a ninth judge who tends to rule in favor of religious liberty would bring into play new laws that enable people to use their particular religious or moral beliefs to determine how they conduct business. This could determine how individual health care providers decide to treat individual patients; how insurance companies (or individual insurance company employees) decide to handle abortion-related claims; whether pharmacists would have to sell birth control, misoprostol, or Plan B medications that prevent or end pregnancies; and a wide range of interconnected activities that could include police and fire protection, real estate transactions, and even city services to properties or individuals associated with abortion. Religious objections could encompass sex, birth control, and abortion, and extend far beyond.The religion thing is bigger and broader. It means [abortion], but it means more than that, including whether judges are willing to shield religious objectors from progressive policies or soften the boundaries between church and state, said William J. Bennett, a conservative commentator and former U.S. education secretary. Every aspect of life, not just reproduction, such as employment, education, housing, and financial transactions of any kind could be subject to religious whims. What begins as an intent to control access to abortion could ultimately stretch to every aspect of life.Here are a few ways we all could be impacted.Roe v. Wade is part of the 14th Amendment, which enshrined privacy rights into constitutional law and extended those rights to sex and reproduction. The Court held that the Bill of Rights and the Due Process clause of the 14th Amendment implicitly created a zone of privacy. When states have moved to restrict rights to contraception, as in the 1965 caseGriswold v. Connecticut, the Supreme Court in the past has ruled that the fundamental right to privacy includes contraceptive use and the right to continue or not continue a pregnancy. Striking down Roe on the grounds that privacy rights dont exist could eliminate the constitutional right to birth control. Again, that would then fall to the states to decide. In a country that is largely governed by religious conservatives, that would mean married and unmarried people alike would be at constant risk of pregnancy. Trump, who has claimed that he should receive the Medal of Honor for avoiding STDs in his own personal Vietnam of extreme promiscuity, has taken action to make it harder for people to obtain birth control  even though improved access to birth control is directly tied to decreases in unwanted pregnancies.In Florida, a group of religious conservatives have proposed an amendment to the states constitution that would ban the morning after pill, intrauterine devices (IUDs), contraceptive implants, and hormonal birth control pills. Break the law? Get the death penalty.Lets be very clear what this initiative proposes. Its supporters want to put doctors and patients in jail for lifeor have them executed by the statefor accessing hormonal birth control or abortion, saidRewiresVice President of Law and the Courts, Jessica Mason Pieklo.The concepts of freedom and liberty are essential to American identity  we live in the land of the free. Most people in the U.S. understand that they have more autonomy and say over their own lives than citizens do in many other parts of the world. Catch a few episodes of the late Anthony Bourdain in Parts Unknown and youll see something you never see in other foodie travel shows: Raw fear on the faces of the general public. There are many innocuous things you can do in these places that will get you horribly punished by the state or even killed. The loss of freedom is both unimaginable to Americansand suddenly within reach. Even some conservatives are suddenly aware of what taking away existing freedoms could mean. Conservative commentator Toni Lahren said she would personally choose life, but that she believes its not the governments place to dictate. Currently, the right to a safe and legal abortion is part of the U.S. Constitution. Taking away that right means the same court could overturn other parts of the Constitution and take away other rights.The constitutional framework of Roe is about far more than abortion. Its about rearing our children without unwarranted government interference. Its about choosing whom we want to marry. Its about deciding with whom we want to create a home. Its about the right to use contraception. Its about what the Supreme Court in Planned Parenthood v. Casey explained is the promise of the Constitution that there is a realm of personal liberty which the government may not enter, said Nancy Northrup, president and chief executive of the Center for Reproductive Rights.If Roe falls, it sets a new precedent for the loss of personal rights and freedoms. The same religious fervor currently trained on womens autonomy is also hoping to undo the right to same-sex marriage and other rights granted in recent years to LGBT people, including workplace protections and transgender rights. If gay marriage rights can be taken away, could Loving v. Virginia, the decision that legalized interracial marriage, be overturned? Would gun rights be curtailed? After a man with a gun pushed past security at an Avett Brothers concert in Oregon, causing the band to cancel the show, the rights of one took away the rights of many; in schools across the country, the rights of a man with a gun have taken away lives. The Supreme Court could act on that using the same logic it applies to abortion rights. What about slavery? Several GOP candidates and sitting legislators have openly admitted they admire slavery. With the right mix on the court, maybe they could reinstate it. What about freedom of the press? When the president calls the press the enemy of the people, politicians freely assault reporters, and prominent conservatives encourage the murder of journalists, its safe to say the freedom of the press is already in serious jeopardy.By relitigating abortion rights before the Supreme Court, every aspect of the Constitution and every aspect of American freedom becomes vulnerablea conundrum that leaves even some conservatives uneasy.	Liberal
Back in September 2004, the United States was gearing up for an election year showdown between Republican incumbent George W. Bush and his Democratic challenger John Kerry. And the alternative-pop-punk-rock band Green Day released their seventh studio album: American Idiot.The album was seen as a direct stab at oft ridiculed President Bush; a charge the band never denied.The album’s success eventually inspired a Broadway musical of the same name.The album debuted at number one in the United Kingdom back in 2004. And now in 2018, the first song from that album is gaining a resurgence in popularity there.But why is a song from a 14 year old “punk rock opera” concept album suddenly surging back up the UK pop charts?Two words: Donald Trump. The song? “American Idiot.”President Donald Trump is set to visit the UK on Thursday, July 12. The president arrives in London, England, in the afternoon. He comes straight from a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Brussels, Belgium.From his arrival point he and First Lady Melania Trump will go to Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire, where UK Prime Minister Theresa May plays host at a black-tie dinner with 100 guests and ministers. Activists plan protests throughout the visit, including a giant floating diapered baby Trumpin London and the Lord Mayor of Sheffield revoking the welcome mat.In an effort to send another message to the president, activists began a social media campaign employing Facebook and Twitter and the hashtag #MAIGA. A take on Trump’s own slogan, Make America Great Again or MAGA, MAIGA is Make “American Idiot” Great Again.Both a Facebook page……and a Twitter account were created to get the word out.Let’s put @GreenDay #AmericanIdiot to @officialcharts No.1 when #Trump has his official state visit pic.twitter.com/8vYqv9anpO American Idiot For UK No.1 When Trump Visits (@TrumpIdiotNo1) January 30, 2017People were encouraged to download the song from July 6 to 12, the day Trump is set to arrive in the UK. They hope to have “American Idiot” top the UK pop charts just in time for the president’s arrival.So far, it appears their efforts are working.	Liberal
Brett Kavanaugh, President Donald Trump’snext nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court, thanked the president during a speech last night. The momentwould have gone over well enough had it not been for a strange claim he made about the president’s selection process.No president has ever consulted more widely, or talked with more people from more backgrounds, to seek input about a Supreme Court nomination, Kavanaugh said.Brett Kavanaugh: "No president has ever consulted more widely or talked to more people from more backgrounds to seek input for a Supreme Court nomination." pic.twitter.com/26LSUnSobB— Axios (@axios) July 10, 2018That comment does not hold up to scrutiny, notes analyst Aaron Blake, who in a piece forThe Washington Post explains just why Kavanaugh’s claim is so dubious:It may seem like a throwaway line  a bit of harmless political hyperbole. But this was also the first public claim from a potential Supreme Court justice who will be tasked with interpreting and parsing the law down to the letter. Specificity and precision are the name of the game in Kavanaugh’s chosen profession. How on earth could he be so sure?There have been 162 nominations to the Supreme Court,according to U.S. Senate records, over the past 229 years. (The Supreme Court began in 1789.) For Kavanaugh to make such a claim, he would have to have studied not just those confirmations, but the often-secretive selection processes that preceded them. These things, quite simply, are not a matter of public record or even all that well documented by reporters. A week ago, for example, most media outlets were reporting the list of three finalists did not include Thomas Hardiman. By the end, it was believed Kavanaugh’s top competitor was Hardiman.Besides, Blake notes, it is “basically impossible to know” everyone who may have been on President George W. Bush’s short list (for multiple reasons) so it makes little sense that Kavanaugh would say what he did when precision with language is the name of the game for a Supreme Court justice, potential or otherwise:It is basically impossible to know everybody with whom George W. Bush consulted on his Supreme Court nominations, much less George Washington. There may be some justification for Kavanaugh’s comment based upon the increasing diversity of American politics and society more generally, but it is a completely unprovable assertion  and one that would require a basically unheard-of level of research to substantiate.Beyond that, there are reasons to doubt it. Trump actually leaned quite heavily on a list of names he did not put together himself but were insteadprovided by the conservative Federalist Society a group whose ideological diversity is not exactly vast. Trump did not stray from that list for either this selection or Neil M. Gorsuch’s. And Trump spent a relatively brief two-week period making this decision. Barack Obama, by contrast, spent about a month reviewing his options before he nominated Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.Social media tore into Kavanaugh as well…Kavanaugh begins by saying "no president has ever consulted more widely, or talked with more people from more backgrounds, to seek input" about a SCOTUS nomination. He can't possibly know that and it's almost certainly not true – but it shows he's learned what works with Trump.— Randall Eliason (@RDEliason) July 10, 2018Worth reading again: Brett Kavanaugh's third sentence at the White House podium in the East Room was a blatant lie: "No President has ever consulted more widely, or talked with more people from more backgrounds, to seek input about a Supreme Court nomination." Unverifiable. pic.twitter.com/3bnmGvpoC9— Philip Crowther (@PhilipinDC) July 10, 2018…with analyst Seth Abramson calling for the Senate to demand that Kavanaugh’s “secret list of replacement jurists” be made public.The Senate MUST demand that not only is Kennedy's secret list of replacement jurists made public, but also that the Senate questions Trump's secret negotiators in public before any vote is taken to determine if any unethical inducements or considerations were offered or received.— Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) July 10, 2018Others drew parallels between Kavanaugh’s comments and those made by physician Ronny Jackson, whom the president nominated to beUnited States Secretary of Veterans Affairs to succeed David Shulkin. Many raised questions about Jackson’s experience and qualifications, particularly after it emerged that the president nominated Jackson because he liked the way Jackson handled himself in January when speaking to reporters during an extended grilling about Trumps health and cognitive fitness. (At the time, Jackson claimed Trump’s neurological functions are excellent and assured the press corps that he would be able to finish out his term. He added that Trump likely had incredible genes that allowed him to remain healthy despite a lack of exercise and a taste for fast food.)TWO LYING SICOPHANTSRonny Jackson: "Incredible cardiac fitness," & "He has incredible genes" (i.e., racist, btw). Kavanaugh: "no president has ever consulted so widely or talked to more people…"  this guy has no idea if this is true. he was not there. pic.twitter.com/2tV5FG04Ay— Officer Downey (@OfficerDowney) July 10, 2018Sounds just as hyperbolic and accurate as Dr. Ronny Jackson's "medical evaluation" of Trump.— Kiefer Kofman (@kkofman8) July 10, 2018Kavanaugh’s nomination has not come without controversy.Although the president had not until earlier yesterday released apublic shortlist, Kavanaugh wasbelieved to be under consideration along with Raymond Kethledge, Amy Coney Barrett, and Thomas Hardiman as a top contender to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy, whose sudden announcement that he would retire from the Supreme Court raised fears that abortion rights (Roe v. Wade) and marriage equality (Obergefell v. Hodges) would be on the chopping block.Nevertheless, Kennedys announcement was lauded by many conservatives who view the Supreme Court opening as an opportunity for President Donald Trump to codify his legislative agenda. Liberal opponentshave opposed the nomination, citing a precedentset by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), who infamously refused to hold hearings for Merrick Garland, President Barack Obamas nomination for the high court. At the time, McConnell claimed that the Senate should not confirm Supreme Court nominees during an election year, though he could cite no rules to support this assertion, and accusations that his decision was informed, at least in part, by racial animus toward Obama have dogged him ever since.	Liberal
Last week, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visited North Korea to continue efforts to get the reclusive nation to denuclearize. There was a noticeable absence from the meeting, however: dictator Kim Jong Un himself.It turns out Kim may have been visiting a potato farm while Pompeo held meetings with high-ranking North Korean officials, including Kim’s right-hand man, Kim Yong Chol.Kim Jong Un skipped out on meeting Mike Pompeo so he could visit a potato farmhttps://t.co/aafu0hRrSg pic.twitter.com/q4RJEQe9S6— Jon Levine (@LevineJonathan) July 10, 2018The South China Morning Post reported on Tuesday that Kim visited the Junghung potato farm in Samjiyon County, a rural North Korean farming community which shares a border with China.Kim reportedly instructed farmers to plant high-yield crops and to introduce various species good to taste and ensure the quality of processed potato foods in production and thus raise the quality of potato production,” according to the Korean Central News Agency, North Korea’s state-run media.https://twitter.com/NatalieRevolts/status/1016464865718931456Kim described the region as a sacred land of the revolution” which the North Korean government seeks to turn into a model of the country and fairyland of communism.”KCNA didn’t specify which day Kim was at the potato farm, but Chol said Kim was spending time at a “local region.”Right On Rocket man— cicispeedy (@nycmomma) July 10, 2018Kim’s absence from Pompeo’s visit to Pyongyang is another hint that the North Koreans may have played President Donald Trump – using him for nothing more than a photo op – when the two leaders met in Singapore last month.Kim Jong Un chose to visit a potato farm rather than meet Pompeo. The U.S. delegation stayed in a gated guesthouse outside of Pyongyang behind a mausoleum housing Kims embalmed grandfather and father. #DeadlineWH #inners #Maddow #lastword https://t.co/v0tudYd5he— Elaine Taylor (@JessesLaw) July 10, 2018Twitter couldn’t stop laughing at the news.Haha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha hahaha — Dian Pink (@DianPink2) July 10, 2018 pic.twitter.com/JDxlYLxn9h— Rachel M. Garrett (@OpLaughingstock) July 10, 2018lol"North Korean leader Kim Jong Un may have been too busy visiting a potato farm to meet US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo"https://t.co/RKTZ6cTu0n— Ben Norton (@BenjaminNorton) July 10, 2018Lol, 'Potatoes over pompeo' has a nice ring to it though.— Heinrich (@henryfadimo) July 10, 2018They offered their own theories for Kim’s absence.I think he just wanted a productive day! Not spend all day spinning his wheels.— Jeffi (@ingramjr) July 10, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump once again took a swipe at NATO allies while praising Russian President Vladimir Putin during his visit to the United Kingdom on Tuesday.“Frankly, [Russian President] Putin may be the easiest of them all,” Trump told reporters, referring to his feelings on dealing with NATO allies. “Who would think?”"Frankly, [Russian President] Putin may be the easiest of them all — who would think?" President Trump says on dealing with U.K. and NATO leaders during his Europe trip. https://t.co/bgePVARpzd pic.twitter.com/pM5SQhM78d— CBS News (@CBSNews) July 10, 2018“Well, it’s going to be an interesting time in the U.K.,” Trump said, “and it’s certainly going to be an interesting time with NATO.” Trump has had a contentious relationship with British Prime Minister Theresa May. “She will be my Maggie,” Trump told aides, referencing Margaret Thatcher, shortly after the 2016 presidential election.The president repeated his view that NATO “has not treated us fairly” but he thinks “we’ll work something out.” and “all countries will be happy.”Trump then reiterated his opinion that NATO nations like the U.K. “pay far too little,”something the president believes has been “going on for a long time.”The president has bemoaned NATO allies for not paying what he believes is a fair share of their GDP to support the organization, which was set up after World War II to maintain peace and security in Europe.The 29-nation agreement also establishes a system of collective defense, whereby membernations consider an attack on one country an attack on all.On Monday, Trump tweeted other NATO nations “must do much more,” citing Germany’s contribution of one percent of their GDP.The United States is spending far more on NATO than any other Country. This is not fair, nor is it acceptable. While these countries have been increasing their contributions since I took office, they must do much more. Germany is at 1%, the U.S. is at 4%, and NATO benefits…….— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2018On Tuesday, as he prepared to leave for Europe, Trump again wrote: “The U.S. is spending many times more than any other country in order to protect them,” which he described as “not fair to the U.S. taxpayer.”Getting ready to leave for Europe. First meeting – NATO. The U.S. is spending many times more than any other country in order to protect them. Not fair to the U.S. taxpayer. On top of that we lose $151 Billion on Trade with the European Union. Charge us big Tariffs (& Barriers)!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2018Trump is either unaware or oblivious to the sacrifices our NATO allies made in the months following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Germany, which Trump particularly enjoys targeting, lost more than 50 troops during the U.S-led invasion of Afghanistan, for example.The president’s bellicose rhetoric on NATO has allies worryingthat he may try to extort higher spending by threatening to pull American troops out of Europe.Ill see NATO and Ill tell NATO, Youve got to start paying your bills, Trump said at a Montana rally last week. The United States is not going to take care of everything.To be honest, no one really knows how Trump will act during the summit, Tomas Valasek, a former Slovak ambassador to NATO said. His unpredictability is not a byproduct but a design feature  he likes it that way. He comes to this meeting not only prepared to go into confrontation with his peers and allies but with his own staff.	Liberal
On Monday night, President Donald Trump announced his pick to replace retiring Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, Circuit Court Judge Brett Kavanaugh. Prior to the announcement, issues with Kavanaugh had been raised based on his judicial record and an article he wrote in 2009.After the announcement by Trump, several prominent Democratic senators, many of whom appear to be looking toward the 2020 presidential race, came out strongly against Kavanaugh. Among them are New Jersey Senator Cory Booker who stated on Twitter:The nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court is alarming & Im strongly opposed to his confirmation.”In a thread of 17 tweets, Booker outlined the issues with Kavanaugh becoming a member of SCOTUS.Right off the bat, this nomination couldnt get any swampierKavanaugh is a partisan Republican, who worked for Kenneth Starr during the Clinton impeachment & in the George W. Bush White House. Sen. Cory Booker (@SenBooker) July 10, 2018If Kavanaugh is confirmed, we could see progress rolled back on many issues including the right of women to make their own medical decisions, voting rights, rights of workers to organize for better wages & working conditions, the principle of equal justice under the law & more. Sen. Cory Booker (@SenBooker) July 10, 2018Booker also called on citizens to contact their own elected representatives in the Senate.There are many reasons why this #SCOTUS nominee shouldn’t move forwardnow we need to fight & make our voices heard. Call Republican senators & demand they reject this nomination: 202-224-3121. Remember: The power of the people is always greater than the people in power. Sen. Cory Booker (@SenBooker) July 10, 2018Equally vocal is New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand who stated:President Trump just announced Brett Kavanaugh as his nominee to the Supreme Court. One things already clear from his record: He cant be trusted to safeguard rights for women, workers or to end the flow of corporate money to campaigns.”President Trump just announced Brett Kavanaugh as his nominee to the Supreme Court. One things already clear from his record: He cant be trusted to safeguard rights for women, workers or to end the flow of corporate money to campaigns. Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) July 10, 2018In her own Twitter thread, Gillibrand also called on citizens to let their senators know how they feel about Kavanaugh.Tell your senators to hold the line. Tell them to refuse to hold a hearing. Tell them not to confirm anyone until after the midterm elections  when we can recommend a bipartisan nominee. Call, and dont stop calling. Theres too much at stake not to raise your voice right now. Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) July 10, 2018Since the nomination, one of the most vocal opponents has been Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley.	Liberal
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) took to Twitter to share some rather contradictory advice for his fellow senators the afternoon before President Donald Trump nominated Brett Kavanaugh,aUnited States Circuit Judgeof theUnited States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit,as his next nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court.“Americans see beyondthe far-left fear mongering,” McConnell wrote before urging all senators to evaluate the eventual Supreme Court nominee “fairly.”Americans see beyond the far-left fear mongering. Senators should do the same. We should evaluate @POTUSs nominee fairly, based on their qualifications. And we should treat this process with the respect and the dignity that it deserves. #SCOTUSNomination— Leader McConnell (@SenateMajLdr) July 9, 2018There are several things wrong with this statement.Although the president had not until earlier yesterday released apublic shortlist, Kavanaugh wasbelieved to be under consideration along with Raymond Kethledge, Amy Coney Barrett, and Thomas Hardiman as a top contender to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy, whose sudden announcement that he would retire from the Supreme Court raised fears that abortion rights (Roe v. Wade) and marriage equality (Obergefell v. Hodges) would be on the chopping block.Nevertheless, Kennedys announcement was lauded by many conservatives who view the Supreme Court opening as an opportunity for President Donald Trump to codify his legislative agenda. Liberal opponentshave opposed the nomination, citing a precedentset by McConnell, who infamously refused to hold hearings for Merrick Garland, President Barack Obamas nomination for the high court. At the time, McConnell claimed that the Senate should not confirm Supreme Court nominees during an election year, though he could cite no rules to support this assertion, and accusations that his decision was informed, at least in part, by racial animus toward Obama have dogged him ever since.These facts were not lost on many who responded to McConnell’s message and charged him with hypocrisy, with some quoting the following tweet, in which McConnell said the American people should have a voice in choosing the next Supreme Court justice before the Senate could start confirmation hearings.The American people should have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice. #Scalia https://t.co/QXHfOpEY6G— Leader McConnell (@SenateMajLdr) February 14, 2016Needless to say, people are angry.Give the American people the respect & dignity to have a voice in selection of our next Supreme Court Justice; AFTER November midterms. Trump isn't the majority voice of this country. We deserve to elect our new Congress before a lifetime appointment.#ScotusPick #McConnellRule pic.twitter.com/HM2WVOxL6O— Robyn Ruth (@Robyn_Resists) July 9, 2018Giving Merrick Garland a hearing would have been a fair way to evaluate him, but you refused.— jordan (@JordanUhl) July 9, 2018You in 2016: The American people deserve to have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice.Us in 2018: The American people deserve to have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice.You set the precedent. Live by your own words.— Liz Prager OBrien (@LPOB65) July 10, 2018https://twitter.com/Sissy02468/status/1016630831622819840As said by someone who stole a Supreme Court appointment from President Obama. Mr. McConnell, you deserve the same thing that you have been dishing out for years. Please dont speak for the American people – you only represent a small segment of the population.— Lizmo (@Lizmo56) July 10, 2018Others have expressed outrage at the notion that a president under federal investigation could nominate someone with the potential to sway the courts opinion in the event of an indictment.You didn't respect Merrick Garland or his qualifications.You are aiding and abetting a treasonous criminal. You do know if the House and Senate flip in November, you may well be impeached and tried  for treason. #ThinkABoutThat— regdog (@TierzaChels) July 10, 2018To that end, it’s obvious why the president ultimately picked Kavanaugh, who is perhaps best known for the leading role he played indrafting the Starr report, which advocated for the impeachment of President Bill Clinton and whoseviews about when to impeach a president are likely to become contentious subjects during his Senate confirmation hearing.Kavanaugh, for his part, has sinceexpressedmisgivings about the Starr report; in 2009, he wrote that Clinton should have been spared the investigation, saying that indicting a sitting president would ill serve the public interest, especially in times of financial or national-security crisis. Writing in the Minnesota Law Review, he suggested that Congressshould pass laws that would protect a president from civil and criminal lawsuits until they leave office. He added that there was always a way to remove a bad-behaving or lawbreaking President.If the president does something dastardly, he wrote, the impeachment process is available.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has chosen Brett Kavanaugh,aUnited States Circuit Judgeof theUnited States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit,as his next nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court.BREAKING: President Trump is nominating federal appeals court Judge Brett Kavanaugh as next US Supreme Court justice – @PeteWilliamsNBChttps://t.co/kdrUxk2XiK— NBC News (@NBCNews) July 10, 2018The first clues that it was Kavanaugh came from Peter Baker on Twitter:Buzz at the US courthouse in DC: Brett Kavanaugh spotted leaving in a black sedan accompanied by four black SUVs with security agents presumed to be Secret Service, per source.— Peter Baker (@peterbakernyt) July 9, 2018It had also been reported today that Trump’s advisors had been well aware of Kavanaugh’s comments from 2009 on the indictment of a sitting president:“The indictment and trial of a sitting President, moreover, would cripple the federal government…”REPORT: Donald Trump’s SCOTUS Team Has Looked at Brett Kavanaugh’s Comments on ‘Indictment & Trial’ of a PresidentKavanaugh is perhaps best known for the leading role he played indrafting the Starr report, which advocated for the impeachment of President Bill Clintonandhis views about when to impeach a president are likely to become contentious subjects during his Senate confirmation hearing.Kavanaugh, for his part, has since expressed misgivings about the Starr report; in 2009, he wrote that Clinton should have been spared the investigation, saying that indicting a sitting president would ill serve the public interest, especially in times of financial or national-security crisis. Writing in the Minnesota Law Review, he suggested that Congressshould pass laws that would protect a president from civil and criminal lawsuits until they leave office. He added that there was always a way to remove a bad-behaving or lawbreaking President.If the president does something dastardly, he wrote, the impeachment process is available.Kavanaugh alsowas tasked with investigating the death of deputy White House counselVince Fosterin 1994. He concluded Foster’s death was a suicide, though it did little to quell suspicions of murder from many Clinton opponents.Kavanaugh further made a name for himself as a member of President George W. Bush’s administration, serving for two years as Senior Associate Counsel and Associate Counsel to the President and as Assistant to the President and as theWhite House Staff Secretary thereafter. There was some controversy after Bushfirst nominated Kavanaugh to theUnited States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit; Kavanaugh’s nomination stalled in the Senate for three years on charges that he was too partisan. He was eventually sworn in by Justice Anthony Kennedy, for whom he had previously clerked, and whose seat he now assumes.	Liberal
Senator Robert Casey (D-PA) made waves on Twitter this morning when he vowed to oppose President Donald Trump’s nomination to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy’s seat on the United States Supreme Court.Citing Abraham Lincoln, Senator Casey insisted in a Twitter thread that Trump’s list of twenty-five possible picks was recommended by the Heritage Foundation, a Republican think tank, and would be representative of far-Right interests instead of the American people.This list is the bidding of corporate special interests hell-bent on handing health care over to insurance companies, crushing unions that represent working men and women, and promoting policies that will leave the middle-class further behind.— Senator Bob Casey (@SenBobCasey) July 9, 2018Heritage, which is an extreme Right organization, just released a new proposal to end protections for people with pre-existing conditions and gut Medicaid for seniors, people with disabilities, and children.— Senator Bob Casey (@SenBobCasey) July 9, 2018I was elected to represent all Pennsylvanians. I was not elected to genuflect to the hard Right, who are funded by corporate America.— Senator Bob Casey (@SenBobCasey) July 9, 2018I will oppose the nomination the President will make tonight because it represents a corrupt bargain with the far Right, big corporations, and Washington special interests.— Senator Bob Casey (@SenBobCasey) July 9, 2018Casey was widely praised on social media for his line in the sand.Appreciated, Sir.— Jenny Gattone (@TheWriteJennyG) July 9, 2018Thank you, @SenBobCasey.— Jane Sheviock (@Penpillick) July 9, 2018Thank you Bob. Thats why I voted for you.— Jim Cunningham (@ka3ceb) July 9, 2018Thank you for representing the citizens of Pennsylvania with our best interests in mind— Coccopuff (@coccopuff3) July 9, 2018I haven't lived in PA for almost 4 years now but rest assured that I always appreciated the work you did, and I appreciate the work you still do. Thank you.— Patrick McBride (@KnivesMcBride) July 9, 2018Casey elaborated on his decision in a statement:In a nation with over 700 sitting federal judges, many of whom were appointed by Republican presidents, it is outrageous that President Trump will nominate from a list of just 25 dictated to him by the Heritage Foundation.This list is the bidding of corporate special interests hell-bent on handing health care over to insurance companies, crushing unions that represent working men and women, and promoting policies that will leave the middle-class further behind. Any judge on this list is fruit of a corrupt process straight from the D.C. swamp.The Heritage Foundation describes itself as “A research and educational institution whose mission is to build and promote conservative public policies.” They’ve been lauded by Fox News host Sean Hannity as the best “supplier of innovative, conservative ideas grounded in founding principles.” By the end of Trump’s first year in office, the Trump administration had embraced a majority of Heritage Foundation positions. The foundation has routinely praised not just Donald Trump’s Supreme Court picks, and, by its own admission, has maintained heavy influence on the president’s choices to occupy the seat.Fortunately, Senator Casey isn’t the only one standing up to Trump.	Liberal
Back in April, before the summit with North Korea, President Donald Trump told reporters that the United States had been played by “like a fiddle” in the past by North Korea because it had a “different kind of leader.” Trump vowed at the time that North Korea was not playing and he would not be played.Trump on North Korea discussions: “I don’t think he’s playing… The United States has been played beautifully like a fiddle because you had a different kind of leader. We’re not going to be played.” pic.twitter.com/3G49L3SRXY NBC Politics (@NBCPolitics) April 27, 2018But Max Boot, an author, consultant, editorialist, lecturer and military historian claims otherwise. In an opinion piece in The Washington Post, Boot states,Actually, Trump has been played from the start  and hes the only one who doesnt know it. His dealings with North Korea have been a master class in self-deception.”Trump has been played from the start  and hes the only one who doesnt know it. His dealings with North Korea have been a master class in self-deception. Me in @PostOpinions: https://t.co/Jl1v4cDYhd Max Boot (@MaxBoot) July 9, 2018In a scathing commentary, Boot takes on both Trump and Kim.“Trump agreed on the spur of the moment to meet with Kim, thereby putting the dictator of this two-bit police state on the same level as the U.S. president, without any guarantee that he would get anything in return.”Boot also fired a few salvos at Republicans in congress.“…his groupies in Congress nominated him for a Nobel Peace Prize.”Boot also pointed to how the president began to publicly take credit for accomplishments in March related to a summit that would not even happen until June. With all of the online boasts in the months leading up to the summit, North Korea gained an advantage that allowed them to ensure the meeting would occur on their terms.For years and through many administrations, everyone said that peace and the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula was not even a small possibility. Now there is a good chance that Kim Jong Un will do what is right for his people and for humanity. Look forward to our meeting! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2018A message from Kim Jong Un: North Korea will stop nuclear tests and launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles. Also will Shut down a nuclear test site in the countrys Northern Side to prove the vow to suspend nuclear tests. Progress being made for all! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018The highly anticipated meeting between Kim Jong Un and myself will take place in Singapore on June 12th. We will both try to make it a very special moment for World Peace! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2018	Liberal
Aides to President Donald Trump are reportedly peeved with the president’s decision to announce his Supreme Court nominee at 9 pm Monday over concerns the new White House communications director chose the slot to boost Sean Hannity’s ratings.Vanity Fair’s Gabriel Sherman tweeted Monday afternoon that White House staffers “are annoyed” that Bill Shine, who joined the administration last week, “chose 9 pm hour to help Sean Hannitys ratings.”Inside the White House, some aides are annoyed Trump is announcing SCOTUS pick at 9pm because staffers think Bill Shine chose 9pm hour to help Sean Hannitys ratings, a GOP source says— Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) July 9, 2018Shine, a former co-president of Fox News who was forced to resign last year over his mishandling of sexual harassment allegations involving Roger Ailes and Bill O’Reilly,will serve as Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications.”“He brings over two decades of television programming, communications, and management experience to the role, the White House said in a statement on Thursday.Trump and Hannity have an intimate relationship. In May, it wasreportedthe two men speak every night, with Hannity serving as a sort of therapist and informal adviser to the president.Shine will be the fifth communications director, filling the position which has been left vacant since Hope Hicks resigned in February.Hannity joined the president at his Bedminster, New Jersey golf resort over the weekend and urged Trump to nominateChicago Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Amy Coney Barrett as Justice Anthony Kennedy’s replacement.REPORT: Sean Hannity Joined Donald Trump in Bedminster to Push Him to Nominate Amy Coney Barrett to SCOTUS – https://t.co/CHuauubb5y pic.twitter.com/WWp0JkgeJf— Second Nexus (@SecondNexus) July 9, 2018FWIW Hannity has been telling Trump to pick Barrett— Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) July 9, 2018Barrett was also a law professor at the University of Notre Dame and served as a clerk to the late Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in 2016 and whom Trump replaced with Neil Gorsuch.Sherman also reminded followers of Trump’s nomination of Gorsuch, which took place at 8 pm in the East Room of the White House on Tuesday, January 31, 2017.Flashback: Trump announced Gorsuch at 8pm in East Room ceremony— Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) July 9, 2018Hannity’s 9 pm slot is currently the most-watched talk show in the country, with MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow coming in a close second.Hannity has been leading in Q2 so far. pic.twitter.com/11tZai6rt8— Greg Afful (@GregAfful) July 9, 2018Here is what an average day looks like. For those of you who are interested. pic.twitter.com/nHYClTXIUy— Greg Afful (@GregAfful) July 9, 2018Trump is renowned for his obsession with television ratings and media exposure and reportedly intended to build suspense over his SCOTUS pick. Trump has tweeted about ratings 343 times since 2010.To Trump the Presidency is nothing more than a reality tv show…whatever will give him the highest ratings….— CRS (@Charlesragan) July 9, 2018This is exactly the kind of showmanship his supporters want and love.— Michael Horowicz (@Michaelhorowicz) July 9, 2018On his radio show Monday afternoon, Hannity shared his excitement over Trump’s 9 pm announcement, saying he “kind of likes that it’s right at the start of Hannity and we get to talk about it first.”Apropos, Hannity on radio just now said: "Trump will announce his pick tonight…i kind of like that it's right at the start of Hannity and we get to talk about it first."— Angelo Carusone (@GoAngelo) July 9, 2018Therearetwo other frontrunners for Kennedy’s seat: D.C. Circuit Court Judge Brett Kavanaugh of the United States Court of Appeals, and Raymond Kethledge,a United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.	Liberal
Fox News host Sean Hannity reportedly weighed in on whom President Donald Trump should nominate to the Supreme Court during a visit Trump’s Bedminster, New Jersey golf club over the weekend.Sources familiar with the conversation told the New York Times Hannity urged Trump to choose Amy Coney Barrett, an extremely conservative Chicago Circuit Court of Appeals Judge who was appointed by Trump to the bench last year.Barrett was also a law professor at the University of Notre Dame and served as a clerk to the late Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in 2016 and whom Trump replaced with Neil Gorsuch.Sean Hannity and Donald Trump's sister could influence president's Supreme Court decision https://t.co/U3oqAQdZqA pic.twitter.com/cFmaHIDsLZ— Newsweek (@Newsweek) July 9, 2018The president is expected to announce his pick Monday evening to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy, who retired on June 27th.I have long heard that the most important decision a U.S. President can make is the selection of a Supreme Court Justice – Will be announced tonight at 9:00 P.M.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2018Im very close to making a decision, Trump said as he boarded Air Force One to return to Washington on Sunday night.NYT: "But Mr. Trump has also said positive things to associates about Judge Amy Coney Barrett, a staunch social conservative, the people familiar with the process said. He spent part of Sunday at his club with the Fox News host Sean Hannity, who favors Judge Barrett…."— Rick Duncan (@FedSocLawProf) July 9, 2018Trump and Hannity have an intimate relationship. In May, it was reported the two men speak every night, with Hannity serving as a sort of therapist and informal adviser to the president.Sources close to the president say Barrett’s social conservatism could have broad appeal with Trump’s base, primarily from her skepticism over Roe vs. Wade and its establishment of abortion as a constitutional right.Will @VP Mike Pence be the last person @POTUS speaks to before taking the podium after 9 pm ? The past Governor of Indiana surely knows that the #SCOTUS pick ought be fellow Hoosier, Amy Coney Barrett   #AmyBarrett @IngrahamAngle @seanhannity @KatiePavlich @FoxNews— One Wireless Place (@PokePlay) July 9, 2018Barrett’s religious affiliations have also come under scrutiny. A devout Roman Catholic, Barrett belongs to a conservative sect known as thePeople of Praise, whose doctrine includes the idea of women being subservient and obedient toward their husbands.The group “looks like a cult,” said former George W. Bush White House ethics lawyer and Minnesota Senate candidate Richard Painter (D). People of Praise allegedly requires members to swear a lifetime allegiance to a same-sex adviser, the female version of which are known as “handmaidens.”Amy Barrett Is downright dangerous unless we want to live in a theocracy, Painter added.A religious group in which members take an oath of loyalty to each other and are supervised by a male head or female handmaiden.  That looks like a cult. Now she wants a seat on SCOTUS for the sole purpose of overturning Roe v. Wade. The answer is NO.https://t.co/i3lb7nVJPU— Richard W. Painter (@RWPUSA) June 30, 2018Another blogger wrote of People of Praise:Barrett is a dangerous religious extremist who believes a federal judge can subvert the U.S. Constitution and the laws of the United States in order to promote her own religious agenda.People of Praise is rumored to have served as some of the inspiration for the Hulu series,The Handmaid’s Tale, based on the Margaret Atwood novel,depicting a dystopian society in which women are relegated to serve as bearers of children.Barrett “has championed originalism and a strict form of textualism that are incompatible with the advancement of civil rights for African Americans, womens rights, and rights for LGBTQ Americans,The Alliance for Justice, a progressive advocacy group, said. They also described Barrett’s views as “genuinely antithetical to our system of democracy.”Friends of Barrett, however, say she recognizes the importance of sequestering her religious beliefs from her judicial duties.“Shes just crazy smart and a very decent down-to-earth person,” said Rick Garnett, a friend of Barrett’s and fellow Notre Dame law professor. “She has a quality of kind of a generosity and kind of a charity that strikes people.”Shes a remarkable person, said Jennifer Mason McAward, another Notre Dame colleague of Barrett’s. Amy can handle anything.I have every reason to believe that would be the case if she was a justice.	Liberal
*UPDATE: A little after 9:00pm EST, Monday, July 9, President DonaldTrumpnominated Brett Kavanaugh to succeed Anthony Kennedy on the Supreme Court.The Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) will have a vacancy after July 31 when Justice Anthony Kennedy officially retires. While many are asking how any potential Supreme Court nominee will vote on issues like women’s reproductive rights or Citizens United, President Trump may have a different litmus test in mind.Will his nominee allow a sitting president to be indicted?And after his team looked into their backgrounds, Trump already knows how at least one member of his short list, U.S. Circuit Court Judge Brett Kavanaugh, feels on the subject.Trump SCOTUS team has looked at Kavanaugh’s past comments on indicting a sitting president, we’ve confirmed. In 2009, Kavanaugh wrote: “The indictment and trial of a sitting President, moreover, would cripple the federal government…” https://t.co/rDHJs5RiUY Jim Acosta (@Acosta) July 9, 2018In a 33 page article for the Minnesota Law Review titled Separation of Powers, Brett M. Kavanaugh discussed separation of powers and executive privilege in regards to the executive branch of the federal government. He based his suggestions on living through the administrations of President Bill Clinton and President George W. Bush, for whom Kavanaugh worked as a staff secretary.The three branches of the federal government executive, legislative, judicial are designed to act as a series of checks and balances, whereby no one branch can hold sway over the others or the citizenry of the United States. It is designed to block tyranny and authoritarianism from arising and keep a dictator from rising to power in the executive branch.However Kavanaugh believes some of those safety measures placed by the U.S. Constitution on the powers of the presidency should be eliminated because being president is super hard. Like harder than anybody else’s job.“First, my chief takeaway from working in the White House for five-and-a-half yearsand particularly from my nearly three years of work as Staff Secretary, when I was fortunate to travel the country and the world with President Bushis that the job of President is far more difficult than any other civilian position in government. It frankly makes being a member of Congress or the judiciary look rather easy by comparison.”Because it’s super hard to be president, Kavanaugh proposes the person currently in that position deserves a break from having to obey the law. Should they actually break laws while in office, they should not be bothered with the consequences all other citizens, or even members of the federal government, would face.	Liberal
Fox News host Howard Kurtz wasn’t afraid to hold his own network accountable for their lack of coverage on Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt’s resignation last week.Pruitt was embroiled in a number of scandals and ethically questionable acts before President Donald Trump announced he’d accepted his resignation. The many scandals included renting a room for $50 a night from a lobbyist and using security detail for personal errands, among numerous other controversies..@MZHemingway says resistance fueled Scott Pruitt coverage; @SusanFerrechio @MoElleithee credit sold investigative reporting for ouster #Mediabuzz https://t.co/pC5uVl7uWh— HowardKurtz (@HowardKurtz) July 8, 2018That didn’t stop a panel of Fox News commentators from attempting to divert the blame for Pruitt’s resignation to journalists and other factions of the media looking to preserve Obama-era environmental regulations with a vengeance.The Washington Examiner‘sSusan Ferrechio said on the show:[Pruitt] was trying to take apart the Obama-era EPA regulations and he accomplished a lot of that, and I think that fueled the investigatory desires of journalists to try to take him down, and outside groups and people within the EPA to try to take him out for that very reason…He made himself a very easy target, clearly. But he would not have been the same level of target if he had a different job within the administration.Thankfully, Howard Kurtz was not going to let them off so easily.Kurtz was quick to take the panelists to task by criticizing his own network’s lack of coverage on the resignation.Kurtz said:Pruitt’s resignation was barely covered on Fox in primetime or early the next morning … and I think that was a mistake.This is far from the first time that Kurtz has called out Pruitt for his ethical recklessness. He addressed Pruitt’s and others in the Trump administration’s indiscretions in an article for Fox News, as well as mentioning Pruitt on Republican Fox Host Laura Ingraham’s show. Ingraham herself, normally known for being virulently conservative, even called for Pruitt’s firing on Twitter.Pruitt is the swamp. Drain it.— Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) July 3, 2018Kurtz has taken to Twitter to address the Pruitt scandals as well:Amazing thing about Scott Pruitt's resignation is that with so many allegations against him, he hung on so long–because POTUS liked his policies— HowardKurtz (@HowardKurtz) July 5, 2018Surprising that the Pruitt ouster didn't leak–many had become numb to the allegations against the EPA chief & Trump gave no indication of losing patience— HowardKurtz (@HowardKurtz) July 5, 2018Kurtz is perhaps right in this regard. Pruitt’s numerous scandals and ethical inquiries are but a few instances of a pattern that has come to characterize the Trump administration. So far, it seems like the swamp is nowhere near to draining. If anything, it’s clogged.The reactions across social media appear to reflect this:And because scandals matter so little in the age of Trump. #pruitt #zinke #ross— Kompromat (@suyak) July 5, 2018The "amazing" thing is that Trump wasn't bothered by all of those allegations. He doesn't care about corruption in his admin. Only appearances. And it's amazing the role that Fox News played in Pruitt's tenure.https://t.co/HN5gwtoQ8k— News Corpse (@NewsCorpse) July 5, 2018The horses A$$ brought it on himself. Thanks Trump for bringing these Swamp Monsters to Washington so that the U.S. taxpayer could be their personal ATM without being forced to pay US back.— Brian Michalak (@bmichalak60) July 6, 2018That's as Pruitt lined his pockets, undermined EPA enforcement, protections, and ignore sound science at every opportunity so corporate lobbyists can determine how best to profit while everyone takes the burden of higher pollutant levels and worse health.— lawhawk (@lawhawk) July 5, 2018If Pruitt’s scandals raised eyebrows, his resignation letter left many gobsmacked.	Liberal
Former New York City mayor, current Trump legal team leader and paid Trump mouthpiece, Rudy Giuliani, went on ABC’s This Week on Sunday. When asked about the president answering questions for the Department of Justice’s Special Counsel investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, Giuliani claimed,He wants to testify. Its hard to believe given all the things that have been shown about how tainted this investigation is. This is the most corrupt investigation I have ever seen.As pointed out previously by Fox News legal expert and former New Jersey Superior Court Judge Andrew Napolitano, Giuliani is paid to spread propaganda in the media about his employer, not to tell the truth. His only objective is a good legal outcome for his client, including in the court of public opinion.Sometimes to meet that end, Giuliani makes untrue claims to the media, especially when the truth would be damaging to his client. Since being hired, Giuliani has made media rounds trying to discredit Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his investigation.Despite knowing why Giuliani makes false claims in his interviews, his latest claim, about the Mueller investigation being corrupt, inspired MSNBC Morning Joe host Joe Scarborough to respond with an almost 10 minute listing of all the known corruption within the administration of President Donald Trump.This is the most corrupt administration in the history of our lifetime, certainly over the first year and a half.”Since Rudy mentioned most corrupt, lets take a better look at some examples of corruption, began Scarborough as graphics began to appear on the screen.After about a year and a half in the White House, here is a snapshot of Donald Trump and his administration that Rudy Giuliani is claiming to be this moral beacon for the rest of the world.”“Robert Muellers investigations brought charges against four ex-Trump advisers, top Trump political advisers, including his former campaign chief, who is now sitting in jail after allegations of witness tampering after his own indictments on fraud, false statements and foreign laundering of money,” said Scarborough.“Yeah, thats what you call corrupt, Rudy.”	Liberal
North Korea has responded to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s latest visit to the nuclear-armed country, describing American attempts to get the country to denuclearize as “regrettable,” “gangster-like” and “cancerous” in a statement released by Korea Central News Agency on Saturday.The state-run news agency said the United States pressed “the same cancerous” issues that have been brought up in past meetings and that pressure from the U.S. to give up its nuclear weapons was a breach of the agreement signed by the two nations in Singapore last month.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo dismisses North Korea's accusation of a "gangster-like mindset" in denuclearization talks and says the talks are going well  https://t.co/DQBepc2y0u pic.twitter.com/7jyQ2rYNLt— CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) July 9, 2018President Donald Trump tweeted Monday morning he has “confidence” Kim Jong Un “will honor the contract” and“even more importantly, our handshake,” although no specific details on denuclearization were agreed upon and the agreement the two leaders signed was not binding.Trump also suggested that China may be “exerting negative pressure” on North Korea in response to the budding trade war he started by imposing tariffs on imported Chinese goods.“We agreed to the denuclearization of North Korea.”I have confidence that Kim Jong Un will honor the contract we signed &, even more importantly, our handshake. We agreed to the denuclearization of North Korea. China, on the other hand, may be exerting negative pressure on a deal because of our posture on Chinese Trade-Hope Not!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2018The U.S. side came up only with its unilateral and gangster-like demand for denuclearization, the statement said. The issues the U.S. side insisted on during the talks were the same cancerous ones that the past U.S. administrations had insisted on.”Brutal description of Pompeos visit to Pyongyang, with a great kicker. https://t.co/R2I5VWfQBH Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) July 8, 2018Pompeo did not meet with leader Kim Jong Un during his three-day visit last week. KCNA said that even though Kim still believes in Trump’s desire to negotiate, Pompeo’s visit pushed tensions to a dangerous stage that could rattle our willingness for denuclearization.On Sunday, Pompeo dismissed the North Korean’s characterizations of his trip, telling Japanese and South Korean officials that his talks with North Korean leadership had been productive. Pompeo insisted that North Korea has maintained their commitment to work toward denuclearization, including an eventual surrender of its nuclear weapons.Proving once again that only fools rush in, Trump forced a summit for cheap headlines. In the process, he gave legitimacy to the most oppressive communist regime on the planet, further damaged the United States and made himself look like a fool. https://t.co/Fl9xsfUL18 Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) July 8, 2018“We had detailed, substantive conversations about the next steps toward a fully verified and complete denuclearization,” he said.“People are going to make stray comments after meetings. If I paid attention to what the press said, I’d go nuts. I am determined to achieve the commitment that President Trump made, and I’m counting on chairman Kim to be determined to follow through on the commitment that he made.”Pompeo pushes back on North Korea criticism: “If those requests were gangster-like, the world is a gangster” https://t.co/m7Ze2qeGnJ pic.twitter.com/eBNpFzq3MC The Hill (@thehill) July 9, 2018Pompeo added on Sunday night that“President Trump believes your country can replicate this path — it’s yours if you’ll seize the moment. The miracle can be yours,” citing Vietnam’s“incredible rise” in recent decades as a result of sustaining a relationship with the United States.	Liberal
Fox News personality Tomi Lahren is facing significant criticism from her fansand many of President Donald Trump’s supportersafter she said that overturning Roe v. Wade would be a big mistake.Lahren acknowledged that her statements would likely anger many of her viewers; she said that any attempts by the Trump administration to overturn the landmark 1973 ruling that legalized abortion across the United Stateswould be unlikely to succeed and would only further divide an already tense country.This president is winning for the American people on the economy, foreign policy, and tax reform, she said. These are areas that benefit all Americans regardless of religion or social beliefs. If we continue to focus on these things and immigration, well sail into 2020 with all three branches in our control. Thats how we get things done for the American people, thats how we win, she said.She added:We lose when we start tampering with social issues. “Do we really want to fight for this, alienate Democrats, moderates and Libertarians all to lose in the end anyway? Thats a risk that I dont think is worth taking.While Lahren said that she’s personally pro-life, she stressed that she believes its not the governments place to dictate” what women do with their own bodies. She also cited a recent Quinnipiac poll which found that most Americans want Roe v. Wade to remain on the books.Those are my thoughts. Feel free to disagree, she said.And disagree is exactly what many conservatives did..@TomiLahren knows nothingnothing about the Constitution, nothing about federalism, nothing about the Supreme Court, nothing about Roe v. Wade, nothing about conservative thought, nothing about bioethics, nothing about the natural law, and I suspect little about anything else.— Michael Knowles (@michaeljknowles) July 9, 2018Some day we will ALL look back at Roe v. Wade and shudder at the inhumanity of abortion.  Democrats scream of children being "ripped from the arms" of mothers but care nothing of unborn babies arms, legs and heads being ripped from their little defenseless bodies by the millions.— Roger Felton (@TotalHunkNot) July 7, 2018Lahrens lack of clarity on this simple issue in & of itself is cause for nearly complete disqualification from the conservative cause because it is a worldview at odds w/ what makes conservatism the superior political pursuit. She lacks a moral root. https://t.co/Hzrw2ObXSw— Ned Ryun (@nedryun) July 8, 2018What is your point??? That Trump should appoint a Ginsburg clone?  If Roe is overturned it just goes back to the states and the people in those states can decide – not a few judges.— Matt Henderson (@MattHenderson66) July 8, 2018Standing up for the most vulnerable among us is winning.— Mandy   (@SpringSteps) July 9, 2018I love you Tomi, but in this case, I disagree.  The job of govt is to protect the nation & the job of parents is to protect their offspring. WHEN a govt tells mothers it is fine to kill their inconvenient children, we must work to help change our govt. I pray for the US daily!— Alexandra (@Alexand16635371) July 9, 2018Lahren later fired back at her critics and defended her statements.Who are you to tell me what I should believe in? Who are you to tell me what my moral fiber is made of? Who are you to tell me Im not conservative enough? Its THAT mentality that turns people to the Left. You can disagree with me but dont you dare tell me how to think. https://t.co/Ed0kyEtQVI— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) July 8, 2018I don't believe government regulation accomplishes that but I respect your view. We disagree- last time I checked that's still allowed in this country. https://t.co/ygWriEckgC— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) July 8, 2018Do I form my political beliefs based on acceptance from the self-appointed thought wardens of either political party? No- and I never will. You dont have to like or agree with my thoughts but at least you know they are my own.— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) July 9, 2018End of the day I dont think government legislates morality well. If you do, great. Im not dumb or uneducated because I dont see the world like you do. So go ahead and reduce me to a pretty girl who just says things. That cheap dig says more about your character than mine.— Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) July 9, 2018But in a piece forThe Federalist, writer Georgi Boorman said Lahren holds a “weird position” for “someone who ‘loves the Constitution”:Yes, I am trying to tell Lahren (and others) how to think. I want to convince her of the correctness of the pro-life position onRoe v. Wade. Vigorous debate is a wonderful American tradition. It is the Left who largely refuse to entertain others ideas, as she has made a career of pillorying, so I am confused as to why Tomi is so hostile to interacting with broadly orthodox conservative beliefs, and thinks that helps define her as an anti-leftist.As for her moral fiber, anyone is free to make a judgment about it just as she and I are free to make a moral judgment about the character of Hillary Clinton. Its a free country. Yet I will make the case on Tomis own values first, and then on the values that should be universal.She further stresses that should Lahren reassess her opinion on Roe v. Wade, she would conclude that the ruling was “social justice activism of the most egregious and dangerous kind.”Lahren stated on The View that she is pro-choice and that the government should stay out of my guns, and stay out of my body as well. She has also said she is an anti-social-justice-warrior, supports limited government, and she describes herself as someone that loves the Constitution.If Tomi truly holds these opinions and read the majority opinion ofRoe v. Wade, beginning to end, she should come to the conclusion thatRoewas social justice activism of the most egregious and dangerous kind. This wasnt a bunch of snowflakes huddling in safe spaces and complaining about others exercising their free speech. These were seven black-robed justices in the highest court conspiring to bind all states to uphold a right that can be foundnowherein the Constitution. Not only that, they told the states exactly how that right must be upheld.	Liberal
Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) was denied entry on Friday into a detention facility that holds unaccompanied minors and migrant children who were separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexican border.Curbelo then took to Twitter to blast the Department of Homeland Security, which the Republican said had initially agreed to grant him access. Curbelo wrote the “visit had been confirmed with local operators for over a week” but “last night was told by @HHSGov staff in Washington I would be refused entry.”Tried to visit an #ImmigrantChildren shelter today. Visit had been confirmed with local operators for over a week. All protocols to request, schedule & get clearance were followed, and yet last night was told by @HHSGov staff in Washington I would be refused entry.— Rep. Carlos Curbelo (@RepCurbelo) July 6, 2018The Congressman added that he was “disappointed” at HHS for citing “protocol” to deny access to other lawmakers and that he was “outraged today given my office followed protocol.Was disappointed when this happened to colleagues last month & @HHSGov excuse was protocol. Outraged today given my office followed protocol. Will be supporting @DWStweets bill to require Members of Congress be granted access to these facilities upon our return to Washington.— Rep. Carlos Curbelo (@RepCurbelo) July 6, 2018Curbelo plans on supporting legislation drafted by fellow Florida Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Democrat, requiring “Members of Congress be granted access to these facilities upon our return to Washington.”If your operation is so sensitive and delicate that an elected leader walking through your facility and asking a few questions disrupts your work, then you have a bigger problem, he said.Schultz introducedtheCongressional Access to Children’s Detention Facilities Act in June, which “would allow Members of Congress to visit the facilities during reasonable hours, and also ensure press access, by allowing media to accompany them on these essential inspections.”Followers on Twitter suggested Curbelo should use the power of his office and of Congress to provide more oversight, which is of course a primary role of the House of Representatives.Too bad you don't have a job where you could hold hearings and hold folks accountable for this buffoonery.— jefffos (@jefffos) July 6, 2018Are you ready to do something about this travesty yet? Maybe try something completely radical like, say, legislation and oversight?— Lindsay Wilson Gowin (@lwgowin) July 6, 2018Stop being disappointed and DO SOMETHING!Republicans control the Congress but not for long because they won't act as a check and balance as is there sworn Duty— Angela Krebs (@AngelaKrebs444) July 6, 2018Was/am disappointed that you Republicans are doing nothing to move on this.  You should be embarrassed and ashamed.  This is on you.— sjc362000 (@sjc362000) July 6, 2018Curbelo’s office had made arrangements to tour theHomestead Temporary Shelter for Unaccompanied Children, which is situated in his congressional district.	Liberal
“Companies are moving back, creating job growth the likes of which our country has not seen in a very long time,” President Donald Trump said in September. Trump habitually claims the American economy is setting records and experiencing historic job growth, but the numbers don’t exactly support his assertions.The great thing about this chart is it really lets you pinpoint exactly when the Trump boom began. pic.twitter.com/tEPFTdTSgm— Matthew Yglesias (@mattyglesias) July 6, 2018Trump appears to be attempting to take credit for his predecessor’s economic record. Not so fast."Donald Trump never built anything by himself, he takes someone else's work and put his name on them" — Barack Obama.— Tzippy Shmilovitz (@Tzipshmil) July 6, 2018As the chart above indicates, the economy has been steadily expanding since 2010, thanks in large part to a stimulus package signed into law by President Barack Obama.Before then, the economy was hemorrhaging hundreds of thousands of jobs per month following the collapse of the housing and stock markets in 2008.Friday’s monthly jobs report, for example, showed strong growth in June, with 213,000 jobs added and the unemployment rate ticking up from 3.8 percent to 4 percent from more people having entered the labor force.That wont stop him from taking all the credit. pic.twitter.com/Iw5sVyfLps— Joshua Brehse (@JBrehse) July 6, 2018Trump took office in January 2017, and while growth has been more or less steady in the year and a half he’s been in office, more jobs were added each month in Obama’s second term than in Trump’s first, on average.“The average monthly gain under Trump is 181,000 jobs,” FactCheck.org wrote in April, “which is nearly 17 percent below the monthly average of 217,000 during Obamas second term.”Demonstrates that Trump inherited a growing economy, and any argument that he "fixed" or "improved" anything is complete BS.— Brando (@Brandossius) July 6, 2018This slowdown in job creation is due, in part, to fewer people looking for work. Another contributing factor is the record number of open job positions – 6.7 million as of April – and a lack of qualified workers to fill them.Job growth has slowed under Trump. Last 18 months: 3.48 million jobsPrevious 18 months: 3.7 million jobs— John Dusek (@jdusek) July 6, 2018The skills gap is especially notable in the technology sector. Carolyn Lee, executive director of The Manufacturing Institute at the National Association of Manufacturers, said in February that by 2025, there will be 3.5 million jobs in technology and manufacturing that will need to be filled. She estimates as many as two million of those positions may go unfilled because of retiring baby boomers and a shortage of trained workers.We are definitely not producing enough workers to fill those jobs, Lee said. pic.twitter.com/o5HppYHSXj— Speaks4Majority (@Speaks4Majority) July 6, 2018Automation is also projected to displace a substantial percentage of the global workforce – up to 800 million workers in the next few dozen years, according to a McKinsey & Co. forecast issued last November.	Liberal
Prominent Republicans criticized President Donald Trump after he used a moment during his appearance at a rally in Montana to impugnformer President George H.W. Bush.Speaking at the rally, Trump mockedBush’s slogan “thousand points of light,” which he popularized during his presidential campaign. The phrase later became the titular slogan for Bush’s volunteer organization, which he now serves as honorary chairman.“You know all of the rhetoric you see. ‘Thousandpoints of light.’ What the hell was that by the way?” Trump said.“Thousand points of light,” he added. “What does that mean? I know one thing. ‘Make America Great Again’ we understand. Putting America first we understand. Thousand points of light, I never quite got that one. What the hell is that? Has anyone ever figured that one out? It was put out by a Republican, wasn’t it?”President Trump mocked the #MeToo movement in a riff on Elizabeth Warren's heritage & pondered the meaning of George H.W. Bush's "A Thousand Points of Light" during a rally in Montana last night: https://t.co/djUTzzYCny pic.twitter.com/ogRCD4yhOO— HLN (@HLNTV) July 6, 2018The president’s statements received a harsh rebuke from Rick Wilson,a Republican political strategist and media consultant who became well known during the 2016 presidential campaign for his vigorous denunciations of Trump and his supporters. Wilson called Trump “small, shameless, low” and “corrupt.”Contrasts:George H.W. Bush led men in combat, faced death, served in government with honor, raised a magnificent  family, and called us to be better people.@realdonaldtrump is a small, shameless, low, corrupt man who sullies the Presidency and deserves his coming ignominy. https://t.co/C4BCi0juue— Rick Wilson (@TheRickWilson) July 6, 2018Donald Trump is unfit to shine George H.W. Bush's shoes.— Rick Wilson (@TheRickWilson) July 6, 2018This is so uncalled for, wrote Ari Fleischer, who served as Bush’s press secretary during his tenure in the White House.This is so uncalled for. Going after a 94-year-old, former Presidents promotion of volunteerism. I dont mind potus being a fighter. I do mind him being rude. https://t.co/Hr0d20Wuzz— Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) July 6, 2018Richard Haas, the President of the Council on Foreign Relations, also weighed in.Truly offensive to see @realDonaldTrump mock @GeorgeHWBush given 41s 1) life of public service; 2) commitment to volunteerism; 3) critical role in ending Cold War peacefully and on our terms and then leading world in liberating Kuwait, the 1st test of post-cold war era— Richard N. Haass (@RichardHaass) July 6, 2018Joe Scarborough, who has been vocal about the love lost between him and the Republican party since Trump won the 2016 presidential election, took a moment to highlight Bush’s accomplishments.Republicans, this is 20 year-old George Bush being pulled from the sea after being shot down by Japanese war planes. He volunteered to be one of the youngest pilots in WWII and would spend the rest of his life serving America and presiding over Americas victory in the Cold War. pic.twitter.com/oiANGauAsU— Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) July 6, 2018Bush’s granddaughter, Jenna Bush Hager, tweeted out a quotefrom a letter her grandfather wrote more than 20 years ago. The subject: Kindness.Of her grandfather’s organization’s slogan, Hager said, “a point of light was a vision about serving others, one that lit up our country, one I hope our country hasnt lost.”From a letter my grandfather wrote in 1997: a point of light was a vision about serving others, one that lit up our country, one I hope our country hasnt lost. pic.twitter.com/JTq9BHcbvf— Jenna Bush Hager (@JennaBushHager) July 6, 2018But the former president wasn’t the only Republican leader President Trump railed against. He also chided Senator John McCain for his vote on healthcare.Even though we got a little surprise vote that evening, you all remember that evening? Somebody came in with a thumbs down after campaigning for years that he was going to repeal and replace, Trump said about McCain.The reactions to the president’s comments on McCain, who is dying from brain cancer, were similarly heated.You know what makes America great? The "honorable citizens who put their lives on the country and willingly die for the country, like George HW Bush & John McCain. Both individuals who [Trump] thanklessly stomped all over last night," says @MargaretHoover https://t.co/sCy1zsDWE3 pic.twitter.com/DXujhnGMWg— The Lead CNN (@TheLeadCNN) July 6, 2018I am not a Republican. But I am an American. And I never thought Id live to see the day that a GOP President (or any President) would mock John McCain & George H.W. Bush and praises Vladimir Putin. And this crowd of American patriots eats it up?  Stunning. https://t.co/lVFkz7lVbk— Bryan Behar (@bryanbehar) July 6, 2018John McCain is one million times the man trump will ever be.— Michellec (@mlchesney) July 6, 2018Trump has often mocked McCain, a former Vietnam War prisoner-of-war. He once infamously said of McCain, “I like people who weren’t captured.”Last year, Senator McCain in an interview about the Vietnam War, appeared to mock President Trumps draft deferments, pointing to wealthy Americans who were able to get out of being drafted into service. McCain, who during the conflict spent several years as a prisoner of war, notoriously sparred with Trump in 2016 after Trump, then a presidential candidate, doubted his status as a war hero.One aspect of the conflict, by the way, that I will never ever countenance is that we drafted the lowest-income level of America, and the highest-income level found a doctor that would say that they had a bone spur, McCain said. That is wrong. That is wrong. If we are going to ask every American to serve, every American should serve.Trump received five military draft deferments during the Vietnam War, including one medical deferment after he was diagnosed with bone spursprotrusions caused by calcium built up on the heel bonein his foot while a student atthe private New York Military Academy.I had a doctor that gave me a letter  a very strong letter on the heels, he said during an interview withThe New York Timesin 2016explaining his deferments, adding that the heel spurs were not a big problem, but it was enough of a problem.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has not yet commented on Twitter regarding the trade war he launched with China Friday, but he did find time to refer to some of his constituents as “crazies.”Coming from a background of no prior service to the public in any capacity, Trump may not realize as an elected official, unlike in private business, the people do not work for him. The president works for the people, which includes all of the people, not just his fan base.Referring to your employers as “crazies” is never good form.Around 1:00pm EST, Trump’s official Twitter account posted,Just won lawsuit filed by the DNC and a bunch of Democrat crazies trying to claim the Trump Campaign (and others), colluded with Russia. They havent figured out that this was an excuse for them losing the election!”Just won lawsuit filed by the DNC and a bunch of Democrat crazies trying to claim the Trump Campaign (and others), colluded with Russia. They havent figured out that this was an excuse for them losing the election! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 6, 2018The lawsuit Trump refers to was not brought by the Democratic National Committee as Trump claims in his Tweet. The suit was filed by private citizens, Eric Schoenberg and Roy Cockrum, and former DNC staffer, Scott Comer.Every citizen who is a Democrat does not represent the DNC, just as every Republican voter is not the official spokesperson for the Republican National Committee. But that’s just the first thing the president got wrong in his tweet.The judge’s ruling on Tuesday was no victory for Trump. Whether the president knowingly obfuscated the facts on Twitter or just has not had a lawyer available to explain the ruling to him is unclear.The lawsuit, againstTrumps campaign and former adviser Roger Stone, claimed the hacking of the DNCs email systems invaded the private citizens’ privacy and inflicted emotional distress on all parties. The plaintiffs filed their suit in Washington DC.On Tuesday,U.S. District Court Judge Ellen Huvelle declared the suit could not be heard in her jurisdiction, Washington DC,because the alleged actions were not significantly connected to that geographic location. Huvelle made no statements on the validity or merits of the suit.In her decision, Judge Huvelle wrote,It bears emphasizing that this Courts ruling is not based on a finding that there was no collusion between defendants and Russia during the 2016 presidential election. This is the wrong forum for plaintiffs lawsuit. The Court takes no position on the merits of plaintiffs claims.After the decision, the plaintiffs stated,While we are disappointed in and respectfully disagree with todays decision from the District Court to dismiss this case on the grounds that it does not belong in Washington, DC, this case is far from over.”That’s not a win.Perhaps the president was further confused by the volume of lawsuits and investigations currently pending against him or his family or his campaign or his associates.The DNC did file suit against the Trump campaign in a Manhattan federal court in April. In it the DNC claimsthe Trump campaign was a willing and active partner of Russia in its brazen attack on American democracy.”That suit names the presidents son, Donald Trump Jr., as well as his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who held a now infamous meeting with Russian government representatives in Trump Tower during the 2016 presidential campaign, lied about it with the help of the president, got caught lying, then eventually told a more verifiably accurate story under oath.	Liberal
From “Crooked Hillary” to “Cryin’ Chuck Schumer,” President Donald Trump has shown that he’s not above employing childish nicknames to taunt his political enemies, but now he’s getting a taste of his own medicine.Stormy Daniels’ lawyer and possible presidential candidate Michael Avenatti took to Twitter to poll his followers as to which nickname he should use for the President.Donald Trump has been giving nicknames for years. Lets see if he can take one. Which of these should we use going forward?— Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) July 6, 2018Mr. Avenatti emerged as a key player against Trump earlier this year when he filed a suit in order to get adult film star Stephanie Clifford (better known as Stormy Daniels) out of a non-disclosure agreement brokered by Michael Cohen to conceal her consensual 2006 affair with Donald Trump.Since then, Avenatti has been a regular guest on cable news shows, frequently antagonizing Trump and Michael Cohen, and even releasing private bank records revealing large deposits made to the account used to pay Daniels.Avenatti has been such a thorn in the side of the Trump administration that this tweet seems comparatively mild. That didn’t stop his followers from having some fun. pic.twitter.com/B0Vifs5AZ6— Deep State Shu (@DeepStateShu) July 6, 2018 pic.twitter.com/UXjNO8oj35— nancy g villarreal (@ngvillarreal) July 6, 2018How about combining them both?Don the Con Man Trump!#DonTheConManTrump— Ed Krassenstein (@EdKrassen) July 6, 2018https://twitter.com/Kokomothegreat/status/1015270387930796035So far, “Don the Con” maintains a strong lead, but after 2016 everyone’s prepared for an upset.	Liberal
Elephants intense fear of bees may just save their lives.One of the most common causes of death for Asian elephants in India isnt poaching (due largely to their smaller tusk size), but train accidents. From 1987 through July 2017, 266 elephants have been hit by engines in the second most populous country in the world. So far in 2018, 15 elephants were killed on the tracks. Experts think the numbers could be due to more trains, faster trains and/or a burgeoning elephant population, but measures such as warnings and reduced train speeds havent necessarily made a measurable impact on mitigating deaths.Enter bees. Despite their thick skin, both Asian and African elephants are so terrified of bee stings that the vast majority will turn to run within seconds of hearing the sound of buzzing, scientists explain. No one is yet exactly sure why that is the case, but organizations in elephant-populated areas have been experimenting for years with using bees and bee sounds to repel pachyderms. The Forest Department in India has been using drones that emit buzzing-bee sounds to scare elephants away from neighborhoods, farmland and areas known to be frequented by poachers, and farmers in Africa have installed beehives to keep the elephants from eating their crops. African elephants are reportedly even more afraid of bees than Asian elephants; experts surmise this could be because bees in Asia are less aggressive than those in Africa.Late last year, rail officials in eastern India began installing devices alongside the train tracks that emit bee sounds downloaded from the internet, and it seems to be working: This year only six elephants have died from train accidents in the immediate area, compared with 10 at this time in 2017.We installed this in Rangiya division, and once it was successful we have installed it in other locations as well. This was started barely six months back, Lokesh Narayan, additional general manager of Northeast Frontier Railway, told The Times of India.	Liberal
A couple of months ago I was lounging on my couch watching TV and snacking on Stacys Pita Chips. The cinnamon sugar ones are my favorite theyre just sweet enough to feel like a dessert, but they have a satisfying crunch almost like a potato chip. During a commercial, I started to scroll through Instagram on my phone, and almost immediately I found myself looking at a promoted post for Stacys pita chips. Its not that strange to see an ad on Instagram these days  in fact, some are so stealthily designed they look like they could be actual posts from friends. But Id never seen an ad for Stacys anywhere that I could remember, let alone on Instagram. And now suddenly Im eating them and they pop up on my screen. I put the bag down and immediately texted a friend with whom I often joke that our phones are listening to us. Wed long since accepted the fact that when we Googled a product or even talked about it out loud, wed end up seeing it advertised on Instagram or Facebook sooner or later. It became a bit of a nihilist joke  welp, our algorithm overlords are at it again. *shrug* But this time it really kind of freaked me out  I hadnt said anything about Stacys out loud, Id simply been crunching on them. Did Instagram have some kind of access to my debit card to know what Id bought? Could it tell what I was eating by the crunch? Admittedly I was getting a bit paranoid. But apparently not overly so. One cybersecurity researcher from Australia recently made headlines when he warned that our phones really are listening to us in an effort to better target ads. Most people who have a smartphone also have virtual assistants with them all the time. Usually you have to come out and ask Google or Siri to look something up for you or tell you the weather, but researcher Peter Henway points out that in order to hear those commands, Google and Siri have to be listening all the time. According to Apple and Google, these virtual assistants ignore everything but certain trigger words, but Henway claims that the rest of the words we say around our phones are accessible to other apps that could be using them to push us ads.Whether its timing or location-based or usage of certain functions, [apps] are certainly pulling those microphone permissions and using those periodically, Henway recently told Vice. All the internals of the applications send this data in encrypted form, so its very difficult to define the exact trigger.	Liberal
The government releases its monthly jobs report on the first Friday after the last day of each month, which means today we got Thethe June jobs report, which revealed that 213,000 jobs were added to the United States economy in June. But while the number was higher than most anticipated, the rate of unemployment actually rose from 3.8 percent to 4 percent.Which might explain why Donald Trump didn’t tout the jobs numbers ahead of time, as he famously did ahead of May’s numbers last month,possibly affecting financial markets.Looking forward to seeing the employment numbers at 8:30 this morning.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 1, 2018The numbers don’t necessarily indicate a weakening job market, yet the president’s silence was deafening.I see it isn't tweeting yet this morning. Usually loves tweeting about Obama's economy and taking credit for it on the day's the jobs report comes out. But it is his economy alone now. And would ya look at that. Unemployment up.Wages stagnant. China trade war— Lance Mason (@lancegregmason) July 6, 2018Last month @realDonaldTrump bragged about the jobs report before it was released bc unemployment went down. But TODAY he's silent as unemployment went up from 3.8 percent to 4.0 percent. Plus black unemployment jumped from 5.9% in May up to 6.5% in June. Where is Trump's tweet?!— (((DeanObeidallah))) (@DeanObeidallah) July 6, 2018Unemployment is up to 4% and Trump is silent.  No surprise there.—  Laura Costa  (@lauracosta_13) July 6, 2018This most recent job growth continues a trend begun under President Obama in 2010. The economy has continuously added jobs for over 90 months, the longest uninterrupted streak ever recorded in the nation’s history.Far too often, however, unemployment rates and the measure of the work force are oversimplified. The numbers are taken at face value. President Donald Trump and his supporters, for instance, often do this when touting the falling unemployment rate,though the rate of job growth has actually slowed since he won the presidency in November of 2016.Similarly, this first rise in unemployment may not indicate that jobs are more scarce, but that Americans feel confident enough in the market to begin looking for work again. The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates in the report that over 600,000 Americans joined the labor force, which accounts for the rise in unemployment despite job growth.Not that the President remained silent, of course. Once he had a message he could get behind, he took to Twitter in his usual style:JOBS, JOBS, JOBS! https://t.co/Tz2PQ2xetT— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 6, 2018	Liberal
President Donald Trump has raised a few eyebrows with remarks he made during a rally in Great Falls, Montana, Thursday. Trump revived his racist comments despite being asked repeatedly by Native American leaders to not invoke the name of Pocahontas any longer during attacks on Senator Elizabeth Warren, took a jab at the #MeToo movement and mocked decorated veterans Senator John McCain, who served in the Vietnam War that Trump avoided, and President George H. W. Bush, who was shot down in the Pacific while serving in WWII.Andthe president also renewed his public admiration for a man cited by numerous human rights organizations and United States allies for his actions. Trump made some strange comments regarding Russian president Vladimir Putin.In campaign rally, Trump mocks cancer-stricken John McCain, the infirm George H.W. Bush, the #MeToo movement and Elizabeth Warren, but praises Vladimir Putin. https://t.co/ArWH1Qmgjv pic.twitter.com/t8EDEDAfwW Jim Roberts (@nycjim) July 6, 2018Russia is not an American ally, but Trump speaks of Putin in this video clip from the rally likes he’s defending a good friend who just made a few mistakes.Trump: “You know President Putin is KGB… Putin is fine. He’s fine. We are all fine, we’re all people” pic.twitter.com/EHJktcEZu4 Washington Examiner (@dcexaminer) July 5, 2018“You know,”Trump said appearing to mimic someone else, “President Putin is KGB and this and that…” then, turning to a placating tone, the president added,You know what? Putin’s fine. He’s fine. We’re all fine. You know, we’re people.”While no one has challenged Trump’s assessment that everyone involved Putin’s critics, Putin and Trump are in fact “all people,” they do assert that at least one of those people has done some very not fine things.They shared their concerns on the president’s favorite communication system: Twitter. Maybe Trump will see them before he heads to Helsinki to meet Putin in a closed door private meeting.Mr. President, Putin is not fine. He annexed Crimea, intervened in eastern Ukraine, propped up the most ruthless dictator of our time in Syria, violated our sovereignty in the 2016 presidential reelection, constructed autocracy in Russia, etc. Meet him; dont make excuses for him Michael McFaul (@McFaul) July 6, 2018Trump just called Putin ‘Fine.’  FINE!!  Putin kills people who disagree with him & interfered in our election, a fact even the Republican led Senate Intelligence Committee admitted to this week. But ya, sure, Putin is “fine” just like the “very fine” people of the AltRight. https://t.co/jjjUoh40RO James Kosur (@JamesKosur) July 6, 2018Putin murders journalists. Putin is fine. Hes fine. Putin targeted & killed Syrian civilians. Putin is fine. Hes fine. Putin has violated our elections. Putin is fine. Hes fine. https://t.co/rXyg1jJ31n Steven Beschloss (@StevenBeschloss) July 6, 2018There are two people in a London hospital right now who were poisoned by him. https://t.co/gy3bmtyEtX Matthew Miller (@matthewamiller) July 5, 2018Matthew Miller’s post refers to the March assassination attempt against former Russian agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, inthe British city of Salisbury. The Russian poisoning attack led U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May, an ally of the United States, to expel 23 Russian diplomats from Great Britain.But that’s not the end of the not fine things attributed to Vladimir Putin.	Liberal
Back on June 2, President Donald Trump tweeted how the United States cannot lose a trade war, stating,When youre almost 800 Billion Dollars a year down on Trade, you cant lose a Trade War! The U.S. has been ripped off by other countries for years on Trade, time to get smart!”When youre almost 800 Billion Dollars a year down on Trade, you cant lose a Trade War! The U.S. has been ripped off by other countries for years on Trade, time to get smart! Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 2, 2018Now that China has set retaliatory tariffs to the tune of $34 billion, the president will get a chance to test his theory. Can the United States lose in the trade war he started?Friday began the United States first round of tariffs, also $34 billion worth with plans to quickly raise the total to $50 billion, placed against Chinese goods imported to the United States. The U.S. tariffs hit Chinese aerospace products, information technology, auto parts and medical instruments.China has focused their first salvo of the war on agricultural products, cars and crude oil. And their targets may impact Trump and the Republican party in November.The Chinese agricultural tariffs primarily on soybeans, corn, pork and poultry hit at the heart of red states that voted for Trump in 2016. If Trump’s decision to start a trade war with pretty much everyone except Russia and North Korea devastates farms and the related industries in those states, that voting block may choose not to vote this November or vote against the Republican Party.With hopes to retain control of both houses of congress and the furtherance of his agenda on the line, the president cannot afford to anger once loyal supporters just 4 months before the midterm elections.Trump’s choice of what Chinese products to impose with tariffs points to giving a market advantage domestically to some U.S. companies over other U.S. companies. Those U.S. companies that import their components or raw materials from China will be hurt, while those with other trading partners will benefit from Trump’s tariffs.But the Chinese tariffs on the U.S.?Chinas retaliatory tariffs are set to affect huge sections of the American heartland and deep south where the primary targets are produced.China chose their first targets well.	Liberal