In the last few days, journalistic eulogies have abounded for George H. W. Bush, who died at the age of 94 on Friday night. Its established tradition for honoring former presidents. But as Jon Allsop points out in The Columbia Journalism Review, the warm remembrances of Bush also display a distinct trend: evaluating the forty-first president specifically as a foil who highlights the perceived failings of the current commander in chief. Coverage of Bushs life, Allsop notes, has been dominated by favorable comparisons to President Trump. Bushs death, much like McCains before him, became a metaphor for the death of civility in politics. A warm letter Bush wrote his successor, Bill Clinton, was held up as an artifact of bipartisan comity, as BuzzFeeds Anne Helen Petersen noted in an insightful post. Many outlets highlighted Bushs broad public popularity ... And on cable news, in particular, commentators portrayed Bush as an honorable man who did politics the nice way. On CNN, Colin Powell, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff under Bush, summed up much coverage when he said, Politics need not be mean and nasty, and he lived by that.There are genuine reasons to praise Bush. Although he could be brutally demagogic when running for officeaside from the racist Willie Horton ad released by his allies, Bushs 1988 campaign relied on the portrayal of Bush as a true American who loved the Pledge of Allegiance, as opposed to the unpatriotic Greek Michael DukakisBush was an institutionalist who tried to make government work. That meant reaching across the aisle and working with Democrats in a way that now seems inconceivable, leading to the passage of Americans With Disability Act, the amendment of Clean Air Act, and accepting tax increases to lower the deficit. Bushs institutionalist instincts also stood him in good stead in foreign policy, where he dealt with world-changing events like the end of the Cold War and Iraqs invasion of Kuwait by deftly deploying alliances and international organizations like NATO and the United Nations.At the core of Bush nostalgia, Franklin Foer argues in The Atlantic, is a yearning for an older, more responsible Establishment. Specifically, an older elite, hardened in the cold of New England boarding schools, acculturated by the late-night rituals of Skull and Bones, sent off to the world with a sense of noblesse oblige, Foer writes. For more than a century, this Establishment resided at the top of the American caste system. Now it is gone, and apparently people wish it werent.Still, to remember Bush only for his successes ignores the grievous faults of that Establishmentparticularly its cruelty towards socially marginal groups. Foer, along with David Greenberg writing in Politico, does well to remind readers how Bush opportunistically opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in his failed bid to win a congressional seat in Texas. As a member of the Reagan administration, he opposed sanctioning Apartheid South Africa. The Willie Horton ad is rightly seen as a precursor to Donald Trumps race-baiting politics. A cynical willingness to deploy racism isnt the only point of overlap between Bush and Trump. Bush stuck with a flawed Supreme Court candidateClarence Thomaseven after credible allegations emerged that he was guilty of sexual harassment. And Bushs cynicism about human rights (notably his mild response to 1989s Tiananmen Square massacre in China) calls to mind Trumps equal indifference to the issue. Observers worried about Trump pardoning those, such as Paul Manafort and Roger Stone, who could implicate him should recall that this, too, was a precedent set by George H. W. Bush.Perhaps the worst act of Bushs career came at the end of his presidency when he pardoned a bevy of Iran-Contra defendantsincluding Caspar Weinberger, Robert McFarlane and Elliott Abramsto protect himself from further investigation, David Greenberg notes. As vice president, Bush had been present at key meetings about the arms-for-hostages deal that would become the Reagan administrations greatest scandal, but he had never been fully candid about his support for the policy, insisting disingenuously that he had been out of the loop. Late in Bushs presidency, special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh had learned of diaries that Bush had kept, which he hoped to introduce as evidence at Weinbergers upcoming trial. Bushs pardons thus shielded himself from any additional investigation.Finally, any full accounting of Bushs legacy has to include his wretched record on LGBTQ issues. Bush was as captive to the evangelical right on social issuesand thus a decidedly Republican presidentas was his predecessor, Ronald Reagan, who cultivated religious conservatives as a potent political force and bowed to their anti-LGBTQ agenda as the AIDS epidemic mushroomed in the 1980s, Michelangelo Signorile writes in the Huffington Post. On a host of issuesranging from AIDS funding to the ban on gays in the military to collecting data on the prevalence of teen suicide among young gaysBush sided against the LGBTQ community. Bush unquestionably had his merits, but setting him up as an anti-Trump requires selective vision. It is true that theres much about Bush that sets him apart from the current president, notably a commitment to democratic norms and international institutions and alliances. But there are many other ways in which Bush was a forerunner to Trump, conjuring up the forces of atavistic bigotry to win elections, only to die when those forces had taken complete hold of his party. Bush nostalgia is, in its own way, a variation on Trumps appeal to Make America Great Again. Where as MAGA-heads want the old America of white dominance, Bush fans fetishize a more selective part of the past: the reign of the Eastern elite.	Liberal
One evening in January 2015, a mental health counselor named Foad Afshar met with a twelve-year-old boy inside his office in Concord, New Hampshire. Afshar was 55, a gregarious man with eyeglasses, thinning hair, and plans to retire that spring. As a teenager in 1977 he had emigrated alone from Tehran to Massachusetts, fleeing religious persecution. (His family was Bahai, a non-Muslim religious sect.) I had $500 and 50 words of English, he said. He studied psychology and in 1984 moved to New Hampshire. Since then, he had worked at drug treatment centers and psychiatric hospitals, as a school guidance counselor, a special education and ESL director, and in 2005 he opened a private practice, working mostly with children. In 2010, he was elected president of the New Hampshire Psychological Association. When the family of the twelve-year-old first approached him, in November, Afshar had demurred; he had a full caseload and retirement on the horizon. He shared a list of colleagues he recommended. Weeks later, the family called again. The holidays were nearing, and they couldnt find anyone else. Afshar agreed to provide a short-term intervention until the new year, when the family could try again.The boy, identified in court documents as E.R., was in seventh grade. He played an instrument and club sports and liked to snowboard. In summers he liked to visit a family friends lake house on Winnipesaukee. Since his parents divorce, when he was five, E.R. had lived primarily with his father and older sister, and recently his fathers girlfriend, with whom the children had a difficult relationship. The girlfriend yelled and was mean, E.R. said. He began spending more time at his mothers house, just a seven-minute walk. Because his mother worked overnight as a nurse, and slept during the day, E.R. passed most of his hours there aloneand, soon, getting into trouble. He shoplifted condoms and was caught smoking marijuana on campus before school. He and a friend stole lighter fluid. With a Zippo lighter and a can of Axe body spray, he made a small blowtorch. Knives were discovered in his pillowcase. His father worried he was becoming a little bit lost. Over two months that winter, E.R. and Afshar met five times, on weekday evenings. He seemed wicked nice, E.R. said. He liked that Afshar could talk about sports, and that his office had games: a basketball net, a shelf of toys. E.R.s father, retreating to a waiting room down a short hallway, noticed his son emerging from appointments seeming relaxed, and his mother told a pediatrician that E.R. was making great strides. In their fifth session, on January 6, 2015, according to E.R. and to a Merrimack County jury, Afshar slipped his hand beneath E.R.s shirt and rubbed his fingernails across the boys chest and back. Then he reached down E.R.s pants and rubbed his penis.Because of Afshars stature in the community of mental health providers, and because of the shock of the allegation, coverage of his trial flooded local news outlets. There were front-page headlines, opinion columns, and radio reports. In the 17 months between arrest and trial, no other victims came forward. Police searched Afshars office, computer, and clinical files, and found no evidence of wrongdoing. You dont need it, if you believe [E.R.], assistant County Attorney Kristin Vartanian argued to jurors. You do not need any additional evidence to convict the defendant. You dont need fingerprints or DNA, you dont need an eyewitness to the crime.In June 2016, jurors found Afshar guilty of aggravated felonious sexual assault, simple assault, and two counts of unlawful mental health practice. He was sentenced to three to six years in prison, forbidden from unsupervised contact with children outside his family, and ordered to register as a sex offender.That might have been the entire storyhad the verdict proved any more than an unfortunate milestone in the case, had it not sent forth ripples of controversy and condemnation, had the episode not revealed the limits of a criminal justice system, had a culture in reflection not faced obvious challengeif the outcome provided anyone with any closure at all.On a chilly, overcast afternoon in March, I met Kristin Vartanian. In person, she is friendly and disarming, with a habit of calling minors kiddos, even in discussion of criminal cases. She had just come from three days of professional training in sexual assault cases, especially against kiddos, and she told me sadly that the images shed seen, of crime scenes, would stay with her. Since her prosecution of Afshar nearly two years earlier, a contentious law had been proposed in her state: House Bill 106, requiring corroborating evidence, beyond an allegation, in cases of sexual assault where the defendant has no prior conviction for the crime.The reaction was national. Reason magazine called it ridiculous and nonsense. The Daily Beast ran a headline: Lawmaker to Rape Victims: Prove It. A police sergeant in Concord, where Afshar was tried, condemned the bill as nothing short of a Pedophile Protection Act, a phrase that was picked up by the Associated Press. The bill was also troublingly vague, Vartanian, who now works as a prosecutor in Rockingham County, told me. Even she and her colleagues could not reliably predict the effect of the law if it passed. It depends on the definition of corroborating evidence. If you dont define that, were really getting murky.A line Id heard before traveling to New Hampshire was that the state requires no corroborating evidence to convict a person of sexual assault. This is true but misleading. Actually, in most states, no corroborating evidence is required for any conviction at all. Criminal laws do not stipulate evidentiary minimums. In the wake of an allegation, police investigate; based on that investigation, a prosecutor chooses whether or not to press charges; based on those charges, a jury chooses whether or not to convict. This sequence applies whether a thousand pieces of evidence emerge or none of them do. What New Hampshire was trying with HB 106 was not to eliminate an exception, but to create one.It is not the first state to do so. Until the last half-century, states commonly required corroboration. The law is well established, read a 1904 court ruling in Georgia, that a man shall not be convicted of rape on the testimony of the woman alone, unless there are some concurrent circumstances which tend to corroborate her evidence. A 1959 law in New York, in the words of one historian, required corroboration of each material element of the offenseforce, penetration, and identity of the accused. These and other statutes grew from a concern that jurors could be moved to sympathy by any description of so heinous an offense, no matter how speciousand from misogyny, rather explicitly. Women often falsely accuse men of sexual attacks to extort money, to force marriage, to satisfy a childish desire for notoriety, or to attain personal revenge, read a 1970 argument in the University of Pennsylvania Law Review. Two years later, in The Yale Law Journal, a contributor remarked, It is generally believed that false accusations of sex crimes in general, and rape in particular, are much more common than untrue charges of other crimes, adding later, that the dangers of unfounded rape charges are particularly common and dangerous when made by children.By the 1980s, owing mainly to the womens rights movement and to a dawning awareness of the realities of sexual assault, a majority of such laws were repealed. Stephen Schulhofer, an expert in criminal justice at NYU Law School who specializes in sexual assault, told me, Victims can make false accusations of theft, robbery, fraud. The mere possibility of a false accusation doesnt generate these kinds of requirements anywhere else. Arbitrarily steepening the barriers to some criminal verdicts but not others can make legitimate convictions impossible, he said. We have this philosophy that its better for nine guilty people to go free than for one innocent person to be convicted. This is more like letting 999 guilty people go free.Today, 36 states and the federal government do not require corroborating evidence for a conviction of sexual assault. Neither does the Military Code of Justice or Guam or Puerto Rico. The remaining states do so only in limited circumstances. Massachusetts requires corroboration if an alleged victims testimony is discredited or contradicted by other credible evidence. Missouri requires it if testimony is in conflict with physical facts, surrounding circumstances, and common experience. Arizona requires it if the story is physically impossible or so incredible that no reasonable person could believe it. No state has a corroborative policy specific to children.Nonetheless, the actual practice of criminal justice means that many victims of sexual assault do require evidence for their claims to be received seriously, since, well before persuading a jury, he or she must persuade officers and then a prosecutor. Joe Cherniske, who co-led the prosecution of Foad Afshar with Vartanian, told me that most cases brought forward by his office do include corroborating evidence, regardless of statutory requirements. The Gundersen National Child Protection Training Center, perhaps the foremost organization in America for investigating crimes against children, recommends the collection of such evidence, as studies show it increases the odds an allegation will result in formal charges and confessions. According to the National Sexual Violence Resource Center, corroboration is helpful to avoid the normalization of victim blaming and for pursuit of sexual assault cases as more than he said, she said.A wrinkle is that corroborating evidence is often unavailable. Or, rather, it depends on how one defines the term. A majority of sexual assaults are committed outside the view of potential witnesses. And a lot of these cases arent reported right away, Cherniske said. They dont get reported within that day or that week or that month. By the time we bring them into the hospital, theres not necessarily going to be physical evidence of trauma. Circumstances are especially difficult when the victim is a child. Because young victims are most often violated by adults they know and trust, even timely examinations seldom reveal signs of physical resistance, like torn clothing or bruises. An assault that does not include penetrationonly groping or fondlingrarely leaves visible marks. According to the Department of Justice, as many as 40 percent of youth victims of sexual assault show no symptoms, and many do not report at all, frightened of retaliation from the abuser or from their parents.However, a wider array of evidence might be understood as corroborating, even psychological symptoms such as nightmares. Those who say theres no corroborating evidence are thinking very narrowly, Victor Vieth, the founder of the Gundersen center, told me. Theyre thinking of hair, DNA, the things you see on television dramas. Ive never worked on a case of child abuse where, if you look hard enough, you wont find corroborating evidence. Vieth invited me to imagine a child who describes that his or her assault occurred in a room painted blue. Police should obtain a warrant and visit the room. Were its walls blue? If so, that was corroborating evidence.As many as 40 percent of youth victims of sexual assault show no symptoms, and many do not report at all, frightened of retaliation from the abuser or from their parents. No text of HB 106 clarified the term, and this was what Vartanian meant by murky. How were authorities to interpret corroboration? It would be difficult to overstate the magnitude of the decision. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that approximately one in six boys, and one in four girls, are sexually abused before they turn 18. In many states, laws governing the investigation, prosecution, or sentencing of child abuse are named for the children whom adult authorities failed. Brookes Law, in Vermont. Megans Law, in New Jersey. The Jessica Lunsford Act, in Florida. The Jacob Wetterling Crimes Against Children Act. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act.I wondered whether, in Vartanians view, the Afshar case included any corroborating evidence. Absolutely. E.R. was able to describe the interior of Afshars office, including what furniture he sat on. All that was corroborated and found during a search warrant. Dr. Afshar admitted that he used methods that our victim talked about.Neither of those was in dispute, I pointed out. Everyone, including Afshar, agreed the child and therapist had met for five appointments, four of them before the day in question. It stood to reason that E.R was able to describe the interior of the room. Everyone also agreed on what treatment methods the therapist was using, and that no credible application of them included any contact with genitals. I confessed it was difficult for me to see how either fact clarified the truth of what happenedwhat, in a meaningful sense, they were corroborating.That was a question for jurors to decide, Vartanian answered. And jurors had decided. In late 2014, E.R. was nearing the end of his first semester of seventh grade, and his home life, he would later testify, was a cesspool. He signed up for a program at the Boys & Girls Club. Enrollment required that he pass a physical, including, he believed, a genital exam. The prospect made him uneasy. I dont like when they put their hand down your pants or anything like that. He mentioned the physical to Afshar, who decided that, alongside E.R.s more abstract complaintsturmoil at home, misbehavior at schoolthis seemed like a specific, tangible treatment goal. Together they set about trying to address it.First Afshar suggested that E.R. ask his physician to examine him above the clothes. This succeeded: According to the pediatricians clinical notes, and to E.Rs mother, who was present for the appointment, the pediatrician agreed his discomfort was typical for a boy E.R.s age, and the genital exam could be deferred until he was older. Next Afshar led E.R. through relaxation, visualization, and breathing exercises, and a technique called systematic desensitization. Gradually, Afshar would expose E.R. to triggers of his anxiety, to alleviate the stress they provoked. For a phobia of bees, a counselor might expose a patient to a buzzing sound, without any stingin this way, an anxiety could slowly be mollified.E.R. had named a phobia of genital exams. At their fifth appointment, after asking his permission, Afshar touched the boys forearm. Then, according to Afshar, he instructed E.R. to touch his own belly, and to imagine that Afshars hand was doing the touching. This was the nearest Afshar could get to the trigger of E.R.s anxiety, he later explained, without crossing an obvious boundary. According to E.R., something very different happened. Afshar reached beneath the boys pants and underwear. I didnt know what to do, E.R. later testified. I was in shock, so I just let it happen.A week passed uneventfully. Ten minutes before their next scheduled meeting, however, the boy told his sister what happened. Together the siblings told their father, who canceled the appointment. The following day, after a discussion between his parents, E.R.s mother phoned a guidance counselor at the middle school, who phoned the Department of Children, Youth, and Families, which contacted police.The next afternoon, a pair of detectives knocked on the door of Afshars office in Concord, interrupting a session with a patient. He asked if they could return later. (Afshar, who maintains his innocence, later said he assumed that someone in his family had died, and the detectives had come to notify him.) Over his shoulder, detectives noticed his patient was a child, and they pressed to speak immediately.According to E.R., Afshar reached beneath the boys pants and underwear. I didnt know what to do, E.R. later testified. I was in shock, so I just let it happen. When they asked if any patient had recently terminated counseling, Afshar said one had and, realizing they must mean E.R., said he thought he knew where a misunderstanding might have arisen. He explained the upcoming genital exam, the tangible goal, and the therapeutic techniques hed used. He demonstrated on one of the detectives. The detectives asked to see Afshars clinical notes, but Afshar didnt have any: After intake and orientation, when Afshar filled out six pages of assessment forms and a mental status exam, he hadnt taken any further clinical notes in five weeks. Detectives left empty- handed. A day later, Afshar reconstructed his clinical notes on E.R. from memory. Four days after that, on January 20, detectives returned to his office with a search warrant. (A further complication existed, besides Afshars note-taking habits. Due to what he attributed to disorganization on his part, in December 2014, his license lapsed with the New Hampshire Board of Mental Health Practice. He quickly realized the error and filed for renewal, but in the interim he continued his appointments. Two of his meetings with E.R., including the one in question, occurred while Afshar was practicing without a license.)Though detectives searched Afshars office and computer, neither turned up anything incriminating or suspicious. Because eight days elapsed between the incident and its reporting to police, and because its description included no fluid or penetration, detectives decided it was unlikely that E.R.s pants or underwear would offer any evidence. They never collected or examined them for DNA or skin cells. At trial, an expert for the state confirmed that systematic desensitization was a generally accepted treatment method, especially for phobias, and was often paired with relaxation and breathing techniques, precisely as Afshar described. But it was also vital to take clinical notes, and to obtain informed consent from a parent, neither of which Afshar had done. A result was confusion. Although it turned out no genital exam was required after all, understandably E.R. did not know this in advance and, since he was the one communicating with his therapist, Afshar didnt know it, either. Meanwhile, E.R.s father knew of the upcoming exam, and mentioned it to Afshar, but offhandedly; he was only making conversation. He regarded the exam as separate from his sons behavioral issues. Sitting in the nearby waiting room, E.R.s father didnt know touch therapy was occurring at all.One need pay only the barest attention to current events to recognize how often our culture has dismissed or belittled the victims of sexual assault, how seldom we have heard them. It didnt help that both police and prosecutors seemed unfamiliar with psychotherapy. At their initial interview inside his office, Afshar had told detectives he understood E.R. was in a bit of a time crunch to deal with his phobia, because the genital exam was required to enroll at the Boys & Girls Club. Detectives mistook this as a therapeutic techniquetime crunching, like visualization or hypnosis. The phrase made its way into their official report, and prosecutors raised it at trial. What was this time crunching? There is no such thing as time crunching, Afshar testified. Thats the stupidest thing I ever read in that police report.I assume that you feel betrayed by [E.R.]? Cherniske asked.Not at all.According to you, he made all this up?I dont know what happened, Afshar said. I dont know if he made it up, I dont know if other people made it up. I have no idea. I know the allegations are false. Totally, completely.E.R. was 14 by now. Like many 14-year-olds, he could be endearing: On the stand, when he told Vartanian he no longer hung around with the classmate with whom he was caught smoking, and she asked why, E.R. replied that he found the boy annoying. What made him say that? He doesnt care what happens. Like, he doesnt respect anything.He could also be funny. What was his sister like? Vartanian wondered. Grumpy. Was she ever not grumpy? A rare chance.At times he could be conspicuously deflecting, as though he were coached. Was he aware that shoplifting was wrong? Yeah. What had made him do it, then? Peer pressure, and I didnt want to not fit in. I felt nervous, like that if I didnt fit in, they would make fun of me and judge me. Had he wanted to do those things that got him into trouble? No.At times he could be achingly sympathetic, even as the reason aroused curiosity. Within days of his mothers testimony that her ex-husbands new girlfriend, whom E.R. disliked, made E.R. feel he was losing his fathers attention, E.R. agreed on the stand that since reporting the assault everyone had been comforting and sympathetic toward him, and he had gotten a lot of positive attention.And your mom and dad have been united in supporting you, like you had never seen them united before? Afshars attorney asked.Right.Thats a good thing, isnt it, for mom and dad to get along?Yep.In fact, they get along better now than they have ever since they got divorced, right?Uh-huh, E.R. said. This is definitely the best in a long time.Also like many 14-year-olds, E.R. was not always perfectly honest. He lies a lot, his sister had told detectives, though she insisted he wasnt lying about this. At their last appointment, in fact, Afshar had confronted E.R. about two apparent lies. E.R. had told the counselor he was Facebook friends with someone who Afshar happened to know had no Facebook account. He also told the counselor hed never had a girlfriend. Then E.R.s father mentioned his son having recently broken up with one. In their session on January 6, 2015, Afshar asked E.R. about these inconsistencies. A week later, E.R. told his father he was groped.Vartanian and Cherniske each told me, separately, that prosecutors routinely know more than circumstances permit them to introduce at trial, though both declined to say if this were true of the Afshar case specifically. In a file at the Merrimack County courthouse, I discovered a portion of what they might have been hinting at. Some of Afshars supporters were publicizing that he had passed a pair of lie detector tests a court ruled inadmissible at trial. This was not entirely the truth. Actually it was detectives who invited Afshar to take a polygraph, during their visit to his office, and Afshar declined, sayingaccording to detectives notesthat such exams were unreliable, and he felt too anxious for an accurate result. Eight days later, Afshar did take a polygraph, administered by a private provider, not police. He passed. His attorney showed the results to police, who concluded that the questions in the exam were too vague. So Afshar returned to the private provider, who rephrased his questions. Again Afshar passed; again the results were shared with police. This time, among several problems with the test, a departmental expert concluded that Afshar appeared to be using counter measures. Eventually both sides agreed to withhold any mention of polygraphs from trial. Afshars two passing grades later became public knowledge. No other facts from the episode did.Vartanian and Cherniske each told me that prosecutors routinely know more than circumstances permit them to introduce at trial, though both declined to say if this were true of the Afshar case specifically. In the same file, I found a document that was never introduced in any motion or hearing. It was a letter of support from a patient whod met Afshar on and off for a decade, beginning when he was twelve, the same age as E.R. After reading it, detectives phoned him to follow up. He said Dr. Afshar would massage his muscles all over his body, to include his back, shoulders, arms, and abdomen, detectives wrote in their notes. The patient, now a young man, suffered from irritable bowel syndrome, and he told them Afshar seemed knowledgeable. The counselor would massage and push on his abdomen in order to increase circulation to his intestines to help his IBS. Sometimes this happened above the young mans clothes; sometimes it happened beneath them. [He] said Dr. Afshar sometimes pressed on his abdomen over his clothes below his belt line but he denied that Dr. Afshar ever touched his genitals.The courthouse file included the letter. Never have i felt uncomfortable by his touch in anyway nor do i believe it was in anyway meant to be sexual, the young man wrote. One reason I have seen him for counseling is for my troubled ability to trust people and yet i still trust him completely. I hate to see how much good he does to selflessly help people being thrown away by these trying circumstances. The list of organizations that opposed HB 106 included some unusual allies: the County Attorneys Association and the Department of Safety, but also the state chapter of the ACLU. A House committee determined the bill would leave the state with the weakest sexual assault statute in the nation. A press release by the New Hampshire Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence decried the proposal as a blueprint for how to get away with sexual assault, and announced it would require either DNA evidence or an eyewitness, a claim that, while untrue, reflected the widespread confusion about what corroborating meant. A public hearing in February 2017 stretched nearly four hours when 120 people showed up. Reporters for New Hampshire Public Radio described attendees wearing stickers that read, I believe victims. Others wore different stickers: Justice for Foad. The bill proved so controversial that one of its co-sponsors later declined to discuss it with me at all; another withdrew her support and voted against it. It was a major mistake, she told me. I really thought I was doing an OK thing. That bill was the hardest lesson I ever learned. At the end of 2017, the proposal was tabled indefinitely.Still, the original controversy persisted. If HB 106 was no answer, then what was? If certain ills plague any law that requires corroboration, others plague any case that proceeds without it. A case like this presents obstacles for everyone. For victims, it means no proof of their experience, and therefore their trauma is too often dismissed. For the accused, it means the absence of such proof does not reliably exculpate them. A defense attorney is tasked with countering what evidence prosecutors introduce. If this evidence consists solely of the word of the victim, then that is what he counters. An attorney for a client like Foad Afshar has little choice but to accuse an alleged victim like E.R., however politely, of lying. Wasnt this precisely the treatment victims were asking to avoid, especially in the present moment? An adult with a conscience need pay only the barest attention to current events to recognize how often our culture has dismissed or belittled the victims of sexual assault, how seldom we have heard them. Wasnt it vital to treat victims more decently, and didnt that mean believing them? But how far was it right to extend that principleand given the presumption of innocence, werent our laws designed not to? Without evidence, what is the alternative?Wasnt it vital to treat victims more decently, and didnt that mean believing them? But how far was it right to extend that principleand given the presumption of innocence, werent our laws designed not to? When I mentioned these concerns to Jennifer Long, the CEO of AEquitas, a national resource for prosecutors of gender-based violence, she agreed the quandary I was noticing shaped many cases that lacked corroborating evidence. But it was also the underlying dynamic of any case of sexual assault, she said. All youre doing is playing into what people believe already, to blame the victim. Challenging the veracity comes along with the court process. Or, as Joe Cherniske told me, The premise of the prosecution of these cases, where theres no one else present for the crime, is that the victim has to be telling the truth. And the premise of the defense is that the victim is either confused, mistaken, or lying. I dont know how else they could go at it.An additional frustration is that, with so many facts undisputed, each side is simply left to argue, in testimony and character witnesses, how best to interpret them. A trial with no evidence, or at least no conclusive evidence, yields no discoveries. Only inferences. Most of those who believed Afshar guilty assumed that more victims existed, though with none coming forward, and also statistics about underreporting, this was impossible to prove or disprove. The appearance of no other victims showed either that Afshar was a successful criminal or that he was an innocent man. For much of his career, Afshar treated the neediest of children, including those with disabilities or from broken homes. This showed that he was either predatory or altruistic. To clients and their parents, Afshar often gave his personal email address and cell phone number. This showed that he was either grooming or generous. Upon hearing the accusation against him, Afshar urged detectives to consider his reputationthat he had been in business for about 30 years, that nothing like this had ever come up before, one officer recalled. This showed that he was either credible or manipulative. E.R. had a recent history of misbehavior and dishonesty. This showed the boy was unreliable. Or else it revealed why Afshar had targeted him.Before shuttering his practice, Afshar maintained a professional web site, and when detectives visited it, they noticed it goes to great lengths to sell his qualifications and services to help children. This made sense for a therapist who worked primarily with the young. But another interpretation existed. The web site by itself does not imply pedophilic or criminal tendencies on his part, read a detectives supporting affidavit for a search warrant. But it cannot be ignored that sexual predators that target children frequently choose careers which provide them with unsupervised access to children. The affidavit continued, His self-described passion for childrens well-being, his obvious admiration of their world-view, and his hope that he does not lose his sense of childhood all take on a sinister tone in this light. Although Dr. Afshar communicates noble intentions for his patients, it is noteworthy that the web site and its language are also consistent with a sexual predator attempting to lure additional child targets.In her closing argument, Vartanian looked similarly to Afshars credentials. He expects you to believe him. Its clear that hes accustomed to that, people taking him at his word. When I spoke to her, she mentioned Jerry Sandusky and Larry Nassar, two convicted serial sexual assaulters, both of whom are in prison. How did those abusers continue for so long? People have a hard time with anyone whos in a position of authority, and had success, and has the respect of their community, believing that they could harm a child, she said. No parent wants to face the possibility of his or her own child in danger, so they simply refuse to believe it is possible. Vartanian, and several others I spoke with, are parents; they can understand this impulse, even sympathize with it. But they believe it is a form of denial. Were all opposed to child abuse in the abstract, Victor Vieth told me. Were seldom opposed to it when we see it up close and personal. And the reason for that is that its someone we know.After Afshars sentencing, some mental health care providers in New Hampshire reportedly began to change the way they provided treatment, out of fear that an unfounded accusation might destroy their livelihoods.After Afshar was convicted, a web site was set up, justiceforfoad.com, for people to contribute to his legal fund. (In all, more than $50,000 has been raised.) A newsletter sends updates on his case to subscribers. It would not be unfair to compare these dynamics to those of the Salem witch trials, one read. Another included a letter from Afshar, from inside prison. I cant tell one day from another, and live in a space the size of a car parking space with no direct natural light and lots of noisejust loud, incomprehensible, often violent, crude conversations intertwined with the clanging of heavy metal doors. I cope one hour at a time. Newspaper photographs during this period, from a mugshot and appearances at appeal hearings, show a paler, gaunter Afshar, in prison garb, with an unkempt beard and eyes downcast. These photographs became their own controversy, a reporter for the local newspaper, the Concord Monitor, told me, when readers began phoning to complain. They said, Youre making him look like a criminal. Hes not a criminal. What we would explain was, he had been convicted of this crime, and we need a photo of him to illustrate our story.A therapist often has no secretary or receptionist, no assistant or support staff. How are they to protect themselves, if they are innocent? After Afshars sentencing, some mental health care providers in New Hampshire reportedly began to change the way they provided treatment, including video recording sessions, out of fear that an unfounded accusation might destroy their livelihoods. Others have ceased accepting into their treatment any child diagnosed with certain personality disorders, or whose family life seems adversarial, meaning a child whose parents are separated or divorced. In other words, precisely those children who might most need counseling. How many providers have altered their practice in response to Afshar, or whether they tally enough to seriously reduce treatment opportunities for children in the state, is uncertain. The community of therapists, like the community of sexual assault survivors, is not a monolith. Neither are those the only two constituencies with meaningful interests at stake. Nor is New Hampshire the only place. Every other state is in the same position. The creator of justiceforfoad.com and the newsletter is a psychologist named Mike Kandle, who works from a home office in a hilly, wooded neighborhood in Durham, near the University of New Hampshire. For someone so outspoken about the vulnerability of his profession to unfounded allegations, he seemed to practice in a particularly vulnerable setting, I noticed. He agreed this was true. It was the first home office hed owned. He gestured toward a wall of large sliding glass doors, which, he maintained, made his office more transparent. He said, I wouldve recognized the client that put Foad in jail as a high-risk client, and I would have declined to take them altogether.Early in his career, before moving to Durham, Kandle once worked with a twelve-year-old boythe same age as E.R., he noted. The boys mother could be volatile, and, after one of her tirades at home, the boy confided to Kandle that he sometimes felt angry toward his mother and her treatment of him. At their next session, the woman appeared alone in Kandles office. Im concerned about whats happening inside your office with my son, Kandle still recalled her saying. For all I know, you could be molesting him. Her tone and expression left Kandle with little doubt what she meant. A warning shot over the bow, he told me.Kandle long ago stopped seeing children from similar circumstances. When he learned of the allegation against Afshar, he assumed it was phony, since Afshar was well known and well admired. On the New Hampshire Psychological Association listserv he began posting his thoughts on the case. When leadership grew sensitive about this, Kandle invited anyone who was interested to email him for continued updates. The result was Kandles ongoing newsletter. The whole drama created a lot of anxiety and tension and conflict for our profession.I asked Kandle if he was troubled at all by what might be cast, generously, as Afshars inattention to paperwork: the lapsed license, the absent clinical notes. Those were irresponsible and careless practice, Kandle said. They were not criminal, however. Or unheard of. Professionals in his field, as in every field, sometimes grow busy and fall behind. Perhaps it warranted a complaint to the licensing board. Whether Afshar had molested a patient was an entirely different question, Kandle said. Those careless lapses on his part were used to augment the argument, in court, that this is an unethical, unprofessional, rogue, untrustworthy bad actor. It just defies credibility.The episode made Kandle sympathetic to HB 106, and initially he submitted a letter in support. I just could not understand how allegations of this nature could be judged without any evidence whatsoever. Part of me thought it made sense to require some. Then he read and listened to counterarguments. These, too, he found persuasive. These things take place in private, he said sadly. Its hard for anyone to know what actually happened. If that mother, early in his career, had been determined? My career would probably have been destroyed. On the other hand, certainly there were abusers out there. I dont have any wisdom in terms of how cases like this should be handled, he said. Thats beyond me. I see the problems. I see the controversy.A case like Afshars appeared to stand at a vexing intersectiona heinous offense, a common lack of evidence. Are the courts equipped to accommodate all these variables? What is the solution? A small number of models have emerged in recent years as substitutes for the criminal justice system, including civil litigation, mediation, and the restorative justice movement, but those are designed to resolve conflicts, not uncover truths. They are helpful only if a shared understanding exists that an offense occurred. I mentioned to Stephen Schulhofer that a case like Afshars appeared to stand at a vexing intersectiona heinous offense, a common lack of evidence. How equipped are the courts to accommodate these variables simultaneously? Schulhofer referred me to the famous line by Winston Churchillthat democracy is the worst form of government, except for all the others. Whats the alternative? Then he answered his own question. History gives us some answers. We used to have trial by ordeal, or trial by battle. We used to tie people up and throw them in the water. If they floated, that meant their soul was hollow and they were guilty. If they sank, they were innocent, and they got a Christian burial. There are many alternatives. But you can see right away that theyre even worse. An impartial jury, a unanimous verdict, a burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubtthese and other protections exist to balance competing priorities humanely. It was no surprise to Schulhofer that some cases laid those priorities bare. We need to have a system for enforcing the law. At the same time, we dont want to put people behind bars if theres a chance theyre innocent. In an organized society, thats an existential problem.In September 2017, after publishing my first bookwhich told, in part, a story of wrongful convictionI spoke with New Hampshire Public Radio. The next morning, Foad Afshar emailed me. It touched my heart that someone would take the time, stay dogged and be dedicated to the welfare of a wrongly convicted man, it read. Your work was especially poignant to me because I too was wrongly accused and convicted. I knew of his case, but only barely; given all the controversy, on the phone I expected to hear desperation, but he sounded calm and reflective. Now I realized how long hed had, more than a year, to adjust to an abruptly changed life, regardless of its cause. I told him I held no assumption he was innocent. It was important to me that he knew. His reply surprised me. Thats reasonable, he said. I appreciate you telling me. He recognized he couldnt expect every stranger to believe him.I phoned E.R.s parents, who told me they preferred not to speak with a reporter, though not before his mother asked me if I knew of the web site for Afshars supporters. Its hard, as a parent, not to look at that, she said. Id reached her in a fallow period, when things had quieted for her family between court rulings, but she knew it wouldnt last. You feel blindsided sometimes. Things feel settled, and then all of the sudden, boom.After the trial verdict, Afshar hired a new defense attorney, Ted Lothstein. Lothstein hired an investigator who found and interviewed the twelve jurors from the trial. Two of the twelve, the investigator discovered, were survivors of sexual assault. Neither had mentioned this fact before trial. Theyd been asked at least twice: once on a written questionnaire, again verbally during selection. One juror, a young woman, was assaulted in middle school. She had not disclosed her experience because it was private. Another, an older man, was assaulted by his babysitter as a boy. I dont see myself as a victim, he said. Thats not my lifestyle. Therefore, the answers that I gave were true, to my knowledge. Hed been elected the jury foreman.No rule prohibits a juror from serving on a trial for a crime he or she has personally endured. (Amanda Grady Sexton, director of public affairs at the New Hampshire Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence, told me that, if a jury was meant to represent ones peers, the prevalence of sexual assault was a relevant fact. If you take away people who have had a sexual assault in their life, you certainly dont have a jury of your peers. Because your peers have been sexually assaulted.) A requirement is simply that each juror be fair and impartial. In the view of Vartanian and Cherniske, both jurors still were; some vaguely phrased queries had simply confused them. The pair withheld out of misunderstanding, not dishonesty. This carried no suggestion of bias.Lothsteinand eventually an appellate judgedisagreed. In March 2017, a court vacated Afshars convictions and released him from prison. Prosecutors appealed that decision in April; another judge denied them in May. Prosecutors appealed to the New Hampshire Supreme Court in January 2018. In October, the court ruled against them.Today Afshar is free, but perhaps only temporarily. Merrimack County is entitled to re-prosecute him. Five days after the state Supreme Court upheld the dismissal of Afshars verdict, Joe Cherniske announced the state would not pursue a second trial at this time. This did not exclude pursuing one in the future. In New Hampshire, the statute of limitations for aggravated felonious sexual assault against a minor expires within 22 years of the victims eighteenth birthday. The question on which the appeal succeeded was procedural. It does not address the essential matter of what happened. In this permanent uncertainty, a portion of New Hampshire residents believes Afshar guilty. A portion believes him innocent. Any further trial verdict or court ruling is likely to worsen division, not alleviate it. So is any legislative proposal.Afshar has three children. The two eldest, who are in their mid-twenties, told me that no legal outcome could make them feel vindicated. That was the wrong word. What they hoped to feel, both told me, separately and unaware the other had said it, was relief. The eldest, Lilly, happens to be a survivor of sexual assault. So many people are, she said. One of her earliest memories is her father admonishing her for squashing bugs. He would always tell us, Those bugs have families. They have kids. How would you feel if someone came and crushed you? Thats where I learned everything I believe in. She does not look forward to more court proceedings. Its so hard to feel confident and secure after what happened. This is an easy sentiment to appreciate, and also to imagine extending to others. E.R. has finished middle school and begun high school. In a retrial, he and his family would be forced to choose whether or not to testify again.I asked Mike Kandle to consider a terrible possibility. What if, tomorrow, another victim came forward, with a story similar to E.R.s? What would Kandles reaction be?Id be shocked, Kandle said. Id be confused. And if it were a credible accusation, from a credible source, Id find it heartbreaking. I have no interest in protecting sexual abusers. I work with plenty of victims of sexual abuse. Im keenly aware of the indignities and harms of justice not being served for them. I would never support anybody where there are legitimate accusations, even if I was a friend of theirs.What would there need to be, for it to be a credible claim?Thats a good question, Kandle said, and he paused to think.  	Liberal
Chief Justice John Roberts took an extraordinary step last week by publicly reaffirming that the federal judiciary is nonpartisan and independent. Now, an unusual filing by one of the nations most prominent appellate lawyers has given him and his colleagues a chance to prove it.Tom Goldstein, a prominent appellate lawyer and the co-founder of SCOTUSblog, is currently representing Barry Michaels in a Second Amendment case challenging the constitutionality of the federal governments ban on firearm ownership for convicted felons. The case was previously known as Michaels v. Sessions because the lawsuit was directed at former Attorney General Jeff Sessions in his official capacity. But when Sessions resigned on November 9widely believed to have been fired by President Trump, who was dissatisfied with his recusal on the Mueller investigationand was replaced with his chief of staff Matthew Whitaker, the Justice Department naturally put Whitakers name on the case instead.Goldstein, in an unusual move, then filed a motion earlier this month urging the Supreme Court to reject President Trumps appointment of Matthew Whitaker as acting attorney general, based on the fact that Whitaker was never confirmed by the Senate. The motion asked the court instead to substitute Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general and second-in-command at the Justice Department. The Supreme Court hasnt yet said whether it will taken the case.Similar legal challenges to Whitakers legitimacy cropped up around the country after Trump placed Whitaker in charge of the Justice Department. What sets Goldsteins challenge apart is its tactical cleverness: It places the dispute directly before the justices instead of navigating the lower courts first. More importantly, however, it gives the justices a rare opportunity to push back in a nonpartisan fashion against the executive branch, if that is indeed something they are interested in.At issue is whether Whitaker can lawfully exercise the attorney generals vast powers simply because the president says he can. The Constitutions Appointments Clause requires top executive-branch officials like the attorney general to receive Senate approval before taking their post. Not only was Whitaker not confirmed by the Senate to serve as attorney general, he wasnt serving in any Senate-confirmed post at the Justice Department before taking it over. Instead, he rose to the position after serving as Sessionss chief of staff. (Whitaker previously served as the U.S. attorney in Iowa, but his Senate-confirmed status for that job ended when he left the post in 2009.)Installing Whitaker now, Goldstein argues, is therefore illegal. The Attorney General Succession Act unambiguously deems Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein the Acting Attorney General, the motion reads. There is no merit to the Governments contrary argument that Congress empowered the President to choose whether to permit automatic succession under that statute or instead to choose a successor under the Vacancies Act. Indeed, given the absence of any exigency, the Appointments Clause only permits a Senate-confirmed official to serve as Acting Attorney General.The Justice Department quibbled with Goldsteins reading of the relevant statutes and his interpretation of the Appointments Clause in their response brief filed on Monday: After all, vacancy appointments do happen. But the governments lawyers, perhaps sensing weakness, also offered the justices a way to sidestep the question: Whitaker isnt being sued in his personal capacity, so it doesnt matter whether his name is on the case. The real party in interest is thus the Department of Justice or the United States itself, not the individual personally performing the duties of the Attorney General at a particular time, they wrote.Goldstein pulled no punches. This is a constitutional crisis, he declared in a reply brief Wednesday. It is a constitutional crisis even if we are distracted from and dulled to it. Whitakers appointment should be seen as an end-run around constitutional safeguards for Trumps personal benefit, he argued. For the first time in the Nations history, the President has forced out a principal officer and replaced him with a non-confirmed appointee, indeed refusing to submit him or anyone else for confirmation.In unusually direct language, Goldstein went even further and challenged the justices to stand up to Trump: This is a power grab. It is a power grab designed to protect the President personally by evading the authority and responsibility of the Senate and this Court under the Constitution. Yes, the Court can blink at that reality, decline to act, and move on. But history will regret that it did.Figures from the American left widely criticized Whitakers appointment, citing his criticism of the Russia investigation and reports that hes acted as a spy of sorts for the White House inside DOJ. But the consensus against Whitaker also crosses ideological lines. Alberto Gonzales, who served as George W. Bushs second attorney general, said the decision to install Whitaker over a Senate-confirmed official confounds me. Michael Mukasey, Bushs third attorney general, told reporters that he thought the move was a mistake. Even Richard Nixon didnt put in somebody as acting attorney general who had not been confirmed, he remarked to USA Today.The most forceful critique came from Neal Katyal, a former acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, and George Conway, a prominent conservative lawyer and the husband of White House adviser Kellyanne Conway. Senate confirmation exists for a simple, and good, reason, the two men argued in a New York Times op-ed. Constitutionally, Matthew Whitaker is a nobody.The question is how the justices feel about this. Imagine, if you will, that you are a sitting justice on the Supreme Court of the United States. Youre passionate about your work. You care about the institution that you and eight of your colleagues are charged with maintaining. You cherish the American rule of law and the federal judiciarys role in protecting it. And youre disturbed by what youve seen over the last few years.Judicial confirmations are more contentious and vitriolic than at any other point in the nations history. Theyve become a highly partisan show, in the words of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and the terribly polarized political process undermines the courts legitimacy, in the words of Justice Elena Kagan. The corrosive battle to seat Justice Brett Kavanaugh this fall did lasting damage to the courts image as a neutral, independent arbiter of the law. His disturbing tirade against the Clintons and the left, coupled with his suggestions that what comes around, goes around, still rings in many Americans ears.Its not just the legislative branch thats undermining the courts, either. President Donald Trump so far has largely treated the rule of law as a sword to be wielded against his enemies. (Lock her up! the campaign chant went.) He regularly denounces federal judges who issue unremarkable rulings against him, sometimes in racist terms. His Justice Department is abusing procedural mechanisms to skip past the appellate courts and bring issues to your docket directly, apparently hoping youll give his legally dubious acts the rubber-stamp treatment he desires.Whats a troubled Supreme Court justice like you to do? The easiest move would be to keep doing your job and ignore the fleeting political fights that swirl around the courts. Presidents have been frustrated by the judiciary in the past. Theyve even offered pointed criticism of judges whove ruled against them. Their critiques are ultimately fleeting. A president faces regular elections and term limits. You have lifetime tenure.You might still feel a gnawing sense of unease that this time is different, though. Trump is arguably more authoritarian than any of his predecessors, even Nixon at the height of Watergate. During that constitutional crisis, the justices unanimously intervened to demand the president turn over the White House tapes and other subpoenaed documents to the courts. Foremost among their fears was that Nixon would exploit any dissenting opinions to defy a ruling to turn over the White House tapes. There are good reasons for the court to weigh in now. The acting attorney general is regularly sued in his official capacity and could face potential legal challenges in each of those cases. By tackling the matter on their own, the justices could prevent any confusion among the lower courts. While the Supreme Court typically waits for those divisions to emerge before weighing in, theres nothing procedurally improper about Goldsteins challenge, so the court has an opportunity to prevent chaos before it can occur.In practical terms, a ruling against Whitaker would be a slap on the wrist. The Justice Department would continue to function under Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein or any other Senate-confirmed official currently working there. Trump would be also be free to nominate an attorney general for the Senate to consider. This turn of events might hinder Trumps efforts to undermine the Russia investigation as it draws closer to his inner circle, of course. But thats not exactly a good reason for the court to step aside.The decisions real impact would be political in nature, which isnt necessarily a bad thing. It would signal that the court is willing to impose meaningful checks on this presidenta duty that it has so far failed to carry outas well as others. It would strengthen the Justice Departments traditional independence from the White Housea norm, not a constitutional requirement, but a valuable norm nonetheless. It would help restore some of the high courts flagging prestige, setting it apart in an age of institutional disenchantment. And it would teach a president who is used to a certain level of impunity from the political system that there are consequences to his actions.In the Federalist Papers, Alexander Hamilton wrote that the federal judiciary has neither force nor will, but merely judgment. Indeed, the Supreme Court cannot compel Trump to believe in the rule of law. Nor can it rewrite the laws to protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller from undue interference. But it can emphatically and clearly say what the law is. In this case, that may be enough.	Liberal
On Friday night, the family of former president George Herbert Walker Bush announced his death at age 94.Statement by the 43rd President of the United States, George W. Bush, on the passing of his father this evening at the age 94. pic.twitter.com/oTiDq1cE7hHe was a Republican through and through, but towards the end of his life lived to see his party evolve away from his politics. Bush embodied, almost to the point of caricature, the older tradition of upper-class New England Republicanism. He came to this tradition by pedigree. He was born in Connecticut in 1924, the son of a Wall Street banker turned senator.Almost everything in Bushs impressive resume bespoke an allegiance to the country club establishment that once governed the Republican Party: Andover Prep School, distinguished naval service, Yale, membership of the elite Skull and Bones secret society, ambassadorship to the United Nations, a term as envoy to China, a brief stint as head of the CIA. This is the career trajectory of an internationalist Republican, one committed to maintaining Americas role as the cornerstone of the global order. Bush tried to navigate, often uneasily, between the moderate Republican tradition he was reared in and the rising conservative wing of the party. He was, in truth, no liberal. His supposed moderation was mainly a question of style. But that style counted for something. Unlike Ronald Reagan, Bush didnt speak the lingo of movement conservatism, even when he advocated for conservative politics. As The Washington Post notes, During the 1980 primaries, Mr. Bush positioned himself as a moderate, pragmatic alternative to Reagan, and he derided as voodoo economics the former California governors vow to simultaneously cut taxes, boost defense spending and balance the budget.This stance made Bush widely distrusted by conservatives even when Reagan picked him to be the Republican Vice-Presidential candidate in 1980. To overcome his reputation for being squishy (the infamous wimp factor), Bush went overboard in the 1988 election, running rancid racist ads featuring Willie Horton and making demagogic appeals to issues like flag burning. This won him the election, but it was a hollow victory. Conservatives deserted him after he broke his promise of no new taxes, while liberals never learned to trust him. After the severe 1991 recession, he became deeply unpopular, an emblem of an out-of-touch chief executive. His failure to win re-election was inevitable.His lasting legacy as a president will be in foreign policy. His calmness in responding to the collapse of communism, first in Eastern Europe and finally in the Soviet Union, ensured an orderly end to the Cold War. In answering Iraqs invasion of Kuwait with an international coalition, Bush created, for better or worse, the model for continued American interventionism in the post-Cold War era. Bushs decision not to overthrow Saddam Hussein also set the conditions for future conflict. In a very real sense, were still living in the aftermath of Bushs actions, which created a tangled inheritance for his son George W. Bush and subsequent presidents. The pardons Bush granted in the Iran-Contra case (notably to Casper Weinberger and Robert McFarlane) were disgraceful. They helped cement a tradition of elite impunity which undermines the rule of law. Donald Trumps habit of granting deeply partisan pardons (Joe Arpaio, Scooter Libby, Dinesh DSouza) fall in that tradition. If there is a constitutional crisis in the Trump era, the roots can be traced back to Bushs presidency. Bushs politics were a constant effort to find a balance between the demands of right-wing Republicans and the larger world. He died at a moment when his style of politics was completely out of fashion in his own party. President Donald Trumpboorish, anti-intellectual, ignorant of policy, contemptuous of alliances, stridently partisanis in many ways the antithesis of George H.W. Bush. Because of the moment of his death, Bushs passing seems like more than the demise of one man. It truly is the end of a political tradition. 	Liberal
Michael Cohens latest guilty plea is both surprising and unsurprising. The presidents former personal attorney admitted on Thursday to having lied to Congress about the extent of President Donald Trumps business dealings with Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign. I made these statements to be consistent with [Trump]s messaging and to be loyal to [Trump], Cohen told a federal judge in New York during his allocution. His plea came as part of his cooperation with Special Counsel Robert Muellers inquiry, according to court filings.The presidents longtime legal fixer already pleaded guilty to eight tax and fraud-related charges in August, including two campaign-finance violations related to payments he made during the 2016 campaign to cover up alleged affairs between Trump and two women. Cohen told the court at the time that Trump personally directed him to make the payments.Thursdays plea deal offered little in the way of new revelations on Trumps relationship with Moscow during the election. BuzzFeed News reported the bulk of Cohens story in May, detailing how he and Trump associate Felix Sater negotiated to build a new Trump Organization tower on a Moscow riverfront during the 2016 campaign. Its also been widely reported for months that Cohen is cooperating with Muellers inquiry, though the full extent of that cooperation remains unclear.But thats not to say that the plea deal is meaningless. It confirms that Trump himself lied for years about his business ties with Russia. (I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIA - NO DEALS, NO LOANS, NO NOTHING! the president tweeted in 2017.) It draws a direct line between the Trump Organization and the Russian government during the 2016 election. It raises questions about whether other people in Trumps orbit may have told similar lies to Congress about the Trump Organizations contacts with the Kremlin, and whether those people may now be in greater legal jeopardy. (Cohens statement of information explicitly notes that he informed members of Trumps family about the contacts when they took place.)The most surprisingand perhaps most significantaspect of Cohens plea deal may be its timing. Its the second time, for example, that the special counsels office has made a major public move in the days ahead of a scheduled meeting between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. In July, the Justice Department indicted twelve Russian intelligence operatives for election cyberattacks against the Democratic Party. Three days later, Trump stood next to Putin at a press conference in Helsinki and said he believed the Russian presidents denials over the conclusions of U.S. intelligence agencies.This time, the Trump-Putin tte--tte was scheduled to take place during the G20 summit in Buenos Aires this weekend. Hours after Cohens plea deal, however, Trump announced on Twitter that he would no longer be meeting with the Russian president in Argentina, citing an incident last weekend between Russian and Ukrainian naval forces as his reason for canceling the meeting.Based on the fact that the ships and sailors have not been returned to Ukraine from Russia, I have decided it would be best for all parties concerned to cancel my previously scheduled meeting........in Argentina with President Vladimir Putin. I look forward to a meaningful Summit again as soon as this situation is resolved!Cohens plea deal also comes less than a fortnight after Trump answered a series of written questions from Mueller about his campaigns ties to Russia. The exact questions Mueller asked and Trump answered arent yet known. Two questions The New York Times reported the Mueller team had sent to Trump in April, however, touch upon what Cohen pleaded guilty to on Thursday: What communication did you have with Michael D. Cohen, Felix Sater and others, including foreign nationals, about Russian real estate developments during the campaign? and What discussions did you have during the campaign regarding any meeting with Mr. Putin? Did you discuss it with others? Trumps lawyers told reporters Thursday that the presidents answers matched Cohens new narrative in his guilty plea this week. If Trumps answers dont match what Cohen told the court, however, he could find himself in greater legal peril than he already was. Its illegal to lie to federal investigators during the course of a criminal investigation.Thursdays plea deal also comes shortly after Muellers office told a federal judge in D.C. that Paul Manafort, the presidents former campaign chairman, violated his plea agreement by lying to investigators on multiple investigations since he signed it in August. Whats more, Manaforts lawyers reportedly briefed Trumps legal team on what Manafort was telling the special counsel. Those communications amounted to what one legal observer called a brazen violation of criminal defense norms and a catastrophe for everyone involved.Its not yet known what Manafort lied about and how Mueller knew he lied. But the twist is a serious blow to the investigation. When Manafort agreed to cooperate with the special counsels office in September, I noted that the disgraced political operative is the one of the few Americans not related to Trump by blood or marriage who could give a comprehensive account of the campaigns ties to the Russian government. Manaforts alleged lying casts doubt on whatever he already told Mueller and makes him of limited use as a witness in any future criminal cases.Mueller has other avenues of inquiry, though. Cohens plea deal for lying to Congress increases the legal peril faced by Jerome Corsi, a conservative activist currently under the special counsels scrutiny. Corsi rose to fame in the 2000s by smearing John Kerrys military service during the 2004 and spreading racist conspiracy theories about Barack Obamas citizenship throughout his presidency. During the 2016 election, he communicated with veteran political operative Roger Stone about obtaining hacked Clinton campaign emails from WikiLeaksone of the events some believe may have involved cooperation between Russians and the Trump campaign.Corsi, who is 72 years old, acknowledged in a TV interview on Wednesday that he misled Congress about his actions during the 2016 election and that he may die in prison as a result. But he also distanced himself from the prospect of accepting a similar plea deal and cooperating with Muellers inquiry, telling MSNBCs Ari Melber that he believed in his heart that he didnt intend to deceive Congress. Corsis lawyers have signed a joint defense agreement with Trumps legal team, indicating that their legal interests are currently aligned.Muellers overall silence, coupled with his offices apparent lack of leaks, makes it hard to gauge where hes going next in the Russia investigation. Whether intentionally or not, the timing of Cohens plea deal will likely send a few signals to the president, other witnesses, and the public. The federal investigation into Trumps connections with Russia isnt over. Lying to Congress about those connections will result in criminal charges. Muellers office is still willing to cooperate with witnesses who tell the truth. And its unwilling to brook witnesses who dont.	Liberal
Its never a shock to see white Mississippians cover themselves in shame. Theyve been doing it reliably throughout the entire history of a place that became known as the lynching state long before the inceptions of the Confederacy, the Klan, or Jim Crow. By the 1830s, David Oshinsky writes in his history of the states racist criminal-justice system, Worse Than Slavery, Mississippi was viewed as a place of violent moods and minimal restraint, where passion took precedence over the law.In politics, too, white Mississippians have always put passionfor white supremacy and black subjugationabove all pragmatic considerations. With clockwork regularity, every election, theyve chosen to keep their state an economic and educational backwater, an international symbol of Americas racial lunacy.On Tuesday, of course, they did it again. White Mississippi voters punched their ballots in overwhelming numbers for appointed U.S. Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith, a casually racist mediocrity, and rejected one of the most thoroughly centrist Democratic candidates on the ballot in 2018. They chose to shame themselves all over again rather than vote for former congressman and U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy, a Clinton Democrat whose election would have at least complicated, if not erased, the long-held view of Mississippi as the most race-haunted and self-defeating state in the union. And they made that choice in spite ofin some cases, probably because ofanother two-week dose of self-humiliation in the national spotlight, as Hyde-Smiths neo-Confederate sympathies kept making headlines.Espy gave them every chance to break the pattern. The consistent message of his campaign was an appealEspy is too mild-mannered to call it a challengeto white voters to opt, at long last, for sanity and a brighter future. Mississippi, we still just seem to be mired, as he put it on the morning of the runoff election. Still last on all the good lists, and at the top of all the bad lists. All the things you want to be first in, were lagging toward the bottom.In his closing ad, Espy made the stakes clearif, that is, Hyde-Smiths professed wishes for a front-row seat at a public hanging and her joke about the desirability of suppressing black voter turnout hadnt already done so. We cant afford a senator who embarrasses us and reinforces the stereotypes weve worked so hard to overcome, he said, trying to flatter white voters into crossing the rubicon for a black candidate. With the grassroots groups who fueled Doug Joness win in Alabama last year (and Stacey Abramss and Andrew Gillums near-misses on Nov. 6 in Georgia and Florida) producing high turnout among the black 38 percent of the state, Espy only needed about one-quarter of whites to see the light. In the end, even that was asking too much.As the outcome became clear on Tuesday night, the ritual shaming-and-blaming began. Sure, Espy had shaved ten points off President Trumps winning margin in the state in 2016. And yes, the new black-power voting movement in the Deep South had turned what should have been a cakewalkDemocrats havent won a Senate race in the state since 1982, or even come closeinto an actual contest.But none of that mattered to many members of the liberal Twitterati. Here was a prime opportunity to trot out those dismissive one-liners and Mississippi Goddamn references, to take another round of potshots at Americas favorite state to hate. Mississippi, quipped comedian Tony Posnanski, is the person that looks at the McDonalds menu for 15 minutes that hasnt changed for 30 years and still orders the McRacist sandwich. Andy Lassner, co-producer of The Ellen Show, got 36,000 likes for his contribution: Turns out its still 1951 in Mississippi. An Indivisible organizer from Texas encapsulated a whole mini-genre of comments with this: Seriously Mississippi you deserve to be at the bottom of the barrel.Its amazing how 46 percent of a state can be rendered invisible by an election result. As I scrolled through the ritual Mississippi abuse, it became clear that most such comments were made by white liberal tweetersfew of whom bothered to note that it was only white Mississippi that had earned another piling-on. Atlantic writer Vann Newkirk, who delivered some of the most thoughtful dispatches from the state during the runoff, certainly noticed: All I see is people who couldnt give a damn about poor black folks in Mississippi and have never deemed them worthy of attention or assistance crying on Twitter about how bad Mississippi is, he tweeted on Wednesday. Kids are going to go to bed hungry. Fathers gonna work under the whip at Parchman and mothers gonna struggle with childbirth. All under all yalls watch for years and years. But damn them all because a race MSNBC told you to care about didnt go the way you wanted it to.Hating on Mississippi has long been a national pastime. But when the entire state is stereotyped, the largest concentration of African Americans in the county is basically erased. Author Kiese Laymon nailed the injustice of that: When folks diss the blackest state in the nation with the richest history Black organic resistance and Black cultural work, please know they are not just hating Mississippi; they are often hating the Black folk of Mississippi who have given the world a blueprint for liberation.That legacy of resistance is not, as this election showed, a thing of the past, a relic of the 50s and 60s. The surprising competitiveness of this Senate election wasnt just the result of the GOP nominating a clown to run against the classy Espy. It grew out of the progressive organizing that led the state to stop the anti-abortion personhood movement in its tracks by shooting down a constitutional amendment that would have outlawed birth control and in-vitro fertilization. As I noted last week, it stemmed from the efforts of Black Voters Matter, local NAACPs, and the array of new grassroots voter-engagement groups that sprung up down South in the wake of Trumps election. It was spawned by the progressive uprising in Jackson, the state capitol, which last year elected young Chokwe Antar Lumumba mayor on a promise to turn it into the most radical city on the planet.Old Mississippi might have won another victory on Tuesday, but signs of a new Mississippi are there for anyone who cares to see them. You can hear it from young whites as well as blacks, including Ole Misss first female Rhodes Scholar, Jaz Brisack. Interviewed last week by the Oxford Eagle, Brisack did not mince words: Given that our state amplifies the voices of white supremacist women like Cindy Hyde-Smith who reinforce and uphold misogynist policies, she said, Im glad to be able to provide a very different example of how an empowered Southern woman acts. The day after the election, her fellow students organized an impressive protest calling for the removal of the Confederate monument on campus.But thats not the Mississippi many white liberals outside the state want to see. Theres a reason why Mississippi is the place they love to loathe: Its comforting. We live, after all, in a country that went to war over slavery, then created Jim Crowand where a white nationalist used racist rhetoric to become president in 2016, put over the top by a number of those infinitely more enlightened states up North. Mississippi is not an outlier. Its the America that white Americans dont want to recognize as their own.Theres no excuse for the white people in Mississippi who knowingly elected a white supremacist on Tuesday. Theres no excuse for the criminal injustices and economic deprivation that black folks continue to suffer in a state that stubbornly keeps a symbol of hate on its flag. But theres also no excuse for the second-class status of African Americans in most of the rest of the country. And theres no excuse for pretending that institutional racism, violent bigotry, and blinkered voters exist only in the Deep South. Dissing Mississippi is a convenient way to shunt the problem aside, to say, Hey, at least were not them. Even if we are.	Liberal
When the 116th Congress begins in just over a month, President Donald Trumps dream of a wall on the U.S.-Mexican border will be all but dead. Massive gains in the midterm elections will give Democrats a sizable majority in the House of Representatives and the ability to stymie funding for an expensive, impractical, and offensive symbol of xenophobia and nativism.But first, we have to get through yet another government funding fight. Congress has nine days to pass seven bills to fund a number of government agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and Defense. But while both Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Speaker Paul Ryan have been loathe to rattle sabers, Trump is making their lives difficult, threatening to veto any spending bill that doesnt contain funding for a border wall.There is some urgency, to be sure. Trump has failed to deliver on many of his campaign promises, despite presiding over a unified government. With time running outand with no campaign promise more important than the border wallthe president is itching for a fight.This puts Senate Democrats, led by Chuck Schumer of New York, in an interesting position, given that some Democratic votes are required to pass a funding bill in the Senate. And Schumer, to the ire of many progressives, has shown a willingness to make a deal, presumably in exchange for legal protections for Dreamers, the group of undocumented immigrants who came to America as children and are protected under the DREAM Act, which Trump rescinded last fall. But attempting to negotiate with Trump is a profoundly risky strategy, especially given Trumps history of hostage-taking and bad-faith dealing. Its also one that should raise concerns about Schumers leadership as we head into the second half of Trumps first term.Asked on Tuesday about the funding for a wall, Schumer was adamant that the $1.6 billion that had already been allocated for fencing and other security measures was sufficient. Still, he said he was open to negotiating that number, just not in public.Sen. Chuck Schumer tells reporters at his on-cam presser that Democrats position is $1.6 billion for wall funding - far less than the $5 billion Trump wants - but he wont say if Democrats are shutting the door on anything more, saying hes not going to negotiate in public.While a fully-funded wall would cost (at least) an estimated $21.6 billion, Republican Senator Richard Shelby, who chairs the Appropriations Committee, told reporters that $5 billionthe figure currently in one of the Houses spending billsis a red line for Trump. Democrats, meanwhile, have chafed at spending any money on a wall. (Theres a reason why Schumer insists that the funding is going for fencing.) Schumers deputy, Minority Whip Dick Durbin, has already come out against the $5 billion figure, while Schumer himself has noted that the administration has yet to spend the $1.3 billion for border security allocated in the previous years budget.The wall has always been an odious idea, but it is especially offensive coming only days after Border Patrol officials fired tear gas into a crowd of Central American migrants, including young children, over the weekend. But Schumer hasnt let Trumps general awfulness stop him in the past, even though he has gotten little to nothing in return.There is an element of deja vu to this crisis, after all. It was just last year that Trump threatened to shut down the government over wall funding. Then, Schumer and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi thought that they had gotten the upper hand on the president in budget negotiationsand had secured legal protections for Dreamersonly for the president to pull the rug out from under them. After shutting down the government for three days, Democrats backed away from their promise to protect the Dreamers, voting to reopen the government with little to show for their efforts.Schumer may think he is now in a better position, with Democrats prepared to take over the House. A divided Congress will make further funding for a wall very difficult, if not impossible. This may be Trumps last chance. Schumer, ever the dealmaker, sees this as leverage to protect the Dreamers from deportation and to perhaps win other concessions. By suggesting he was open to more wall funding, he was communicating that he was amenable to a deal.But when asked about this possibility, Trump suggested he was not willing to consider anything until the Supreme Court makes a decision on the Dreamers fate. The Court is currently reviewing the legality of his decision to end DACA, the executive order that provided legal protections to the Dreamers. Well I think DACA is gonna be much more interesting to talk about when we go to the Supreme Court, he told Politico. If the Supreme Court doesnt allow DACA, we will settle every single issue we have. Trump then went on to blame the breakdown of previous immigration discussions on Schumer and the Democrats.As New Yorks Eric Levitz has pointed out, Trump is essentially saying that the Dreamers  are his hostagesand he doesnt want to negotiate over their fates until the Supreme Court lets him put loaded gun to their heads. In other words, Schumer might be flirting with the idea of a deal, but Trump thinks that the Dreamers are off the table.Its possible that Schumer believes that his overtures to Trump will insulate his party from blame should the government shut down. He may also be trying to rebut Trumps claim that Democrats are for open borders; on Tuesday he pumped his fist while saying, Were for border security.But when it comes to the issue of immigration, Trump is only interested in using the fate of Dreamers to negotiate stringent immigration reforms and more wall funding than Democrats are likely to give him.Given all this, its troubling that Schumer is so willing to negotiate with Trump. Heading into 2020, Democrats will have considerable leverage in the form of a sizable House majority and the subpoena powers that come with it. They will be able to block funding for wasteful and offensive projects like a border wall. Theres no reason, right now, to work with Trump on anythingand particularly not on a campaign promise that is so antithetical to what Democrats ostensibly stand for. 	Liberal
Forecasting the Supreme Courts final decision based on oral arguments is risky at best. The justices questions during the hour-long sessions dont always reflect their actual views. Not all of courts members actively participate in the back-and-forth deliberations. The justices minds can change as the final opinions are written. No Supreme Court decision is certain until its published and released to the public.That said, it would be pretty astonishing if the justices did not rule in Timbs v. Indiana that the Eighth Amendments ban on excessive fines applies to state and local governments. Wednesdays oral arguments saw broad, forceful agreement across ideological lines that the Constitution protects Americans from unjust fees and forfeitures. At times, the justices treated the outcome like a foregone conclusion.The high courts ruling could give Americans a new set of legal tools to fight back against excessive fines or confiscations of assets from state and local governments. It would come not a moment too soon. Theres a strong bipartisan consensus on the need to rein in civil-asset forfeiture, a practice by which police can deprive citizens of their cash and property without a criminal conviction: The potential for abuse is obvious.Wednesdays case is centered on Tyson Timbs, an Indiana man who became addicted to prescription painkillers after a foot injury. From there, he turned to heroin and other illegal drugs. After his father died in 2012, Timbs received $73,000 from a life-insurance policy. $42,000 of the money went towards a new Land Rover, which he happened to use when driving to pick up some of the drugs. Undercover Indiana police officers eventually arrested Timbs for trying to buy less than four grams of heroin for $400. Timbs received a six-year suspended sentence for the crime, saving him from a stint behind bars, but the police tried to seize his Land Rover. Timbs challenged the seizure in court, arguing that the confiscation of a $42,000 vehicle for a few grams of heroin violated the Constitutions ban on excessive fines. The Indiana Supreme Court disagreed, ruling that the U.S. Supreme Court had never held that the Excessive Fines Clause applies to state governments. Timbs then appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court to change that.In their original form, the Bill of Rights only applied to the federal government: In other words, the federal government couldnt restrict freedom of speech or right to bear arms, but the states could. Over the last century, however, the Supreme Court has used a legal doctrine known as selective incorporation to apply the Bill of Rights protections to state and local governments as wellamendment by amendment, clause by clause. The most recent incorporation came in 2010s McDonald v. Chicago when the justices ruled that the Second Amendment right to individual gun ownership also bound state legislatures and city councils.Indiana Solicitor General Thomas Fisher, who had the unenviable task of arguing for Indianas right to confiscate Land Rovers on Wednesday, only managed to utter two sentences before Justice Neil Gorsuch interrupted him. General, he asked, can we just get one thing off the table? We all agree that the Excessive Fines Clause is incorporated against the states. That assertion did not bode well for Indiana, since the question presented to the court for its consideration is literally whether the Eighth Amendments Excessive Fines Clause is incorporated against the states under the Fourteenth Amendment.It only got worse for the state from there. After briefly recounting the Anglo-American legal traditions long history of skepticism towards excessive fines, the justice pressed his point again. Well, whatever the Excessive Fine Clause guaranteeswe can argue, again, about its scopebut whatever it in fact is, it applies against the states, right? Gorsuch asked. Indianas solicitor general declined to give a straight answer. Well, again, that depends, Fisher replied. I mean, Gorsuch answered, most of the incorporation cases took place in, like, the 1940s, and here we are in 2018 still litigating incorporation of the Bill of Rights. Really? Come on, General.Other justices chimed in. Isnt it just too late in the day to argue that any [part] of the Bill of Rights is not incorporated? Justice Brett Kavanaugh asked Fisher. The courts newest member had a point: The Excessive Fines Clause is one of only four provisions in the Bill of Rights not currently held against the states. Indiana took fire on its left flank as well. Justice Sonia Sotomayor implicitly compared seizures like the one against Timbs to the Star Chamber, a medieval English court that universally represents injustice in the American legal mind.Not all of the justices struck disapproving notes. Chief Justice John Roberts seemed reluctant to incorporate the clause without more clarity about the standards that would be applied against states. He also signaled that he may not be open to tackling the underlying issue. Its no surprise that in rural Indiana that a person might drive somewhere to meet with someone, Wesley Hottot, Timbss lawyer, told the justices at one point. And that doesnt make this vehicle somehow like a pirate ship that had been sailing the high seas. Roberts seemed unpersuaded. Well, thats contrary to a lot of civil forfeiture law, he replied.A ruling in Timbss favor would not directly curb forfeitures, though it may set the stage for future decisions that would. Were not asking the Court to determine that this forfeiture was or was not excessive, Hottot said. Were merely emphasizing that part of the purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to guarantee to all 330 million Americans a right to a defense under the excessive fines clause. Indiana denied [Timbs] that defense, and the Court should reverse and remand. A ruling is expected by June.	Liberal
The 116th Congress wont begin for another month or so, but we already know the sessions most important vote. It wont be about health care or the environment or the technology industry, although it will affect all of those things. It will set the course of U.S. policy, foreign and domestic, for several years, if not decades. And it got very little attention during the midterm campaign.Im talking about the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), the renegotiation of NAFTA that was signed October 1. All participating countries in the deal must ratify it through their legislatures, and with the Democratic takeover of the House, that means the party that rode to victory resisting Donald Trump must decide whether to approve his reimagining of global trade. Since USMCA will serve as a template for future trade deals, the decision will define the United States role in the world, at least from an economic perspective, for a long time to come. The aggressive agendas on health care and voting rights House Democrats are readying have little chance of being approved by the Republican Senate or President Trump. But the USMCA will become law if House Democrats allow it, giving them leverage over something Trump covets. Some Senate Republicans, seeking to avoid letting Democrats have a say in the matter, are urging Trump to rush through the agreement in the lame duck session, but that appears unlikely.The divide over the USMCA, however, is not necessarily left versus right, as both sides see good and bad in the deal. For example, corporate lobby shops like the Business Roundtable and their Republican allies are disturbed by the agreements virtual elimination of investor-state dispute settlement procedures, which allow foreign companies to sue national governments for interfering with expected future profits. Then again, business groups secured expanded copyright terms and legal immunity for Internet companies that host pirated content.  Labor groups are heartenedcarmakers less soby a minimum wage standard for continent-wide auto production, as well as the bolstering of union protections in Mexico. But they are also concerned that the labor chapter lacks sufficient enforcement mechanisms, without which the bold promises amount to mere words on paper. Leftists have warned that they would oppose the USMCA over labor enforcement, as well as weak environmental standards: The words climate change do not appear in the agreement. As Public Citizens Lori Wallach put it in a post-midterms statement, After this election, only trade deals that can earn Democratic support will get through Congress.But a potential leftist roadblock to the deal depends on one critical swing group: the freshman Democrats who will enter Congress in January. And what these new legislators think about trade policy is anyones guess. Trade was not an overriding national message in the midterms, taking a back seat to health care, immigration and gun safety.I looked at the websites of the 40 Democrats who flipped seats in the House, along with eight other incoming members who replaced Democrats in seats considered to be strongly progressive. Not one of these 48 mention trade on their homepages, and just twoJeff Van Drew and Tom Malinowski of New Jerseycite trade on about the candidate pages. Even there, Van Drew nods only to nonspecific trade reforms; Malinowski highlights the need to protect workers in our trade agreements.Eleven of the forty-eight incoming members mention trade on issues pages, but only two list trade specifically as an issueJared Golden of Maine and Kim Schrier of Washington state. There are only four references to NAFTA. Not one freshman noted the USMCA renegotiation, even though the text was released well before Election Day. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the progressive darling, only uses the word trade on her website in one reference to trade school. The Democrats that manage to mention trade generally vow to protect workers from unfair deals that put livelihoods at risk. Ilhan Omar, the Somali-American replacing Keith Ellison in a Minneapolis district, endorses enforceable labor and environmental standards and an end to investor-state dispute settlement on her website. Schriers trade mini-site is detailed, putting U.S. workers and the environment first; Golden points out that the United States must stop using trade agreements as investment deals for the worlds wealthiest corporations.But the vast majority of incoming freshmen either neglect the trade issue entirely, or use the most noncommittal possible language. Antonio Delgado, representing upstate New York, is a good example: his site says he opposes any trade agreements not beneficial to our region or to American workers, without any detail for what that would actually mean. Why was trade such a blind spot in the campaign? As noted, in trying to draw contrasts and move voters, health care and other issues took precedence over technical trade matters. But the composition of the freshman class could also be playing a role. Democrats took seats in the suburbs, rather than the industrial towns beleaguered by NAFTA, or rural areas with agricultural trade concerns. Despite the importance of trade policy to every worker, every consumer, and every taxpayer, those consequences often lie in the background, and may not weigh on the minds of suburban commuters and office-park workers. And while these voters may care greatly about climate change, they may not appreciate the way environmental policy is often enacted through trade policy. But this creates a real unknown factor to the USMCA debate. How exactly will the freshman class approach it? They may join the faction seeking enforceable labor and environmental standards. Or they may see this as an inoculating vote, a way to show non-partisan points of agreement with Trump in swing districts. They may even use their vote to please business groups, and subsequently as a chance to earn future campaign donations. Theres no real way to predict, given the complete lack of discussion of trade in the campaign.Its rare to have this kind of uncertainty in an age of polarized politics. It speaks to a deficiency in our elections that dozens of incoming Congressmembers can get all the way to Washington without disclosing their positions on what will be the most critical vote of their young careers. One hundred and two Democrats supplied the margin when NAFTA passed the House in 1993; far fewer House freshmen could provide the needed votes today. Constituents ought to ask these incoming members where they stand.	Liberal
Carpenter v. Murphy isnt one of the more high-profile Supreme Court cases in recent years, but it may lead to one of the most consequential decisions this term. The dispute, for which the court heard oral arguments on Tuesday, is relatively straightforward: Does the Muscogee Creek Nations reservation in Oklahoma still legally exist? If the answer is yes, then the result is far but simple: Half of the state could fall under tribal jurisdictionwith significant ramifications for taxes, regulations, and criminal investigations.In a legal twist for the ages, this all proceeds from a murder case. Patrick Murphy, a member of the Creek Nation, was convicted and sentenced to death for murder in McIntosh County, Oklahoma. But his lawyers have argued that because the murder took place within the Creek reservations borders, only the federal government, rather than the state government, has the power to sentence him. Now the court faces a quintessential legal dilemma: Should it do what is easy, or what is correct? Some of the justices on Tuesday appeared to favor the easy roadoverturning the lower court decision in favor of the Creek Nations historic sovereignty claim, and leaving the status quo intact. Theres a fundamental principle of law that derives from Sherlock Holmes, which is the dog that didnt bark, quipped Justice Samuel Alito at one point. And how can it be that none of this was recognized by anybody or asserted by the Creek Nation, as far as Im aware, for 100 years? (To the contrary, the Creek Nation asserted political jurisdiction over their historical territory in their 1979 constitution.)A ruling in the states favor would still require some judicial legerdemain on the justices part since the existing precedents strongly favor Murphy. Only Congress can legally extinguish a Native American reservation, and the Supreme Court has previously held that courts cant simply infer that a reservation no longer exists from other congressional actions, even if its functionally defunct. Though Congress passed multiple laws to strip tribes in Oklahoma of their sovereignty, it passed nothing that explicitly abolished the Creek reservation.Whats more, Congress passed a law in 1906 that explicitly declined to disestablish the reservations. This should give the Creek Nation the upper hand, at least in theory. The problem is that Congress, when it did speak, basically said were not going to end tribal sovereignty, Justice Sonia Sotomayor said. So the Congress, exactly around this same time period, basically says, were not going to disenfranchise the tribes. Were going to keep them alive.All of this amounts to one of the most unusual disputes to come before the high court in recent years. Murphys claim that he can only be tried in federal court, not state court, because the murder took place within the boundaries of the Creek reservation, carries life-or-death implications: Oklahoma is more than happy to seek Murphys execution, but Congress forbids the federal government from pursuing the death penalty for murders committed on tribal lands unless the tribal government allows it, which virtually never happens. For Murphy to live, so too must the Muscogee Creek Nations reservation.Murphy originally fought his 1999 conviction and death sentence for the brutal murder of George Jacobs, his ex-girlfriends boyfriend, on mental-disability groundswithout success. His lawyers then raised a more intriguing challenge: that Oklahoma didnt have the jurisdiction to convict him of murder because the crime took place on the Creek Nations lands.Theres a certain logic to this argument. Under the Indian Major Crimes Act, federal prosecutors generally have jurisdiction over certain serious crimes when theyre committed on a reservation, including the murder of one tribal member by another. Both Murphy and Jacobs are members of the Creek Nation, and Jacobss murder took place within the 1866 bounds of the Creek reservation, which includes a large swath of Tulsa.The only problem, argues Oklahoma, is that the Creek reservation no longer exists. In the years leading up to Oklahoma statehood in 1907, Congress took major steps to curb tribal self-government within the borders of what was once called Indian Territory. Federal laws swept away tribal governments, dismantled their courts, made lands within the reservations borders available for sale to white settlers, and effectively wiped away Native American sovereignty over their own lands in the state.What Congress never did, however, was explicitly disestablish the Creek Nations reservation. This is one of the most consequential acts that the federal government can take towards a tribe, and the Supreme Court ruled in Solem v. Bartlett that reservations can only be reduced or abolished if Congress expressly wills it so. In 2017, the Tenth Circuit of Appeals wrote a 133-page analysis of congressional texts and the Creek Nations history before ruling in Murphys favor. Congress, the court said, had never explicitly disestablished the Creek lands.While the Supreme Court justices delved into some of this history on Tuesday, they spent most of the hour-long session pondering the practical effects of a ruling in the tribes favor. If the high court lets the lower courts decision stand, it could revive not only the Creek reservation but also the reservations of the rest of the Five Civilized Tribes and other tribes in Oklahoma. This would be a dramatic change from the way everyone has understood it for the past 100 years, Edwin Kneedler, who argued on behalf of the federal government, told the justices.The Justice Department and the state of Oklahoma have warned in dire terms that recognizing the reservations would upend taxation and regulations for countless businesses, force the federal government to devote more personnel and resources to prosecuting crimes on tribal lands, and call into question existing criminal sentences. Lisa Blatt, the lawyer representing Oklahoma, raised the specter of murderers and rapists going free and adopted Native American children being taken away from their adoptive parents.The Muscogee Creek Nation, for its part, strongly disputed the worst-case scenarios raised by state and federal lawyers. Riyaz Kanji, the lawyer representing the tribe, said that the Creek had an extensive history of cooperating with state and local governments. There are 44 county and municipal jurisdictions in the Creek Nation Reservation, he told the court. The nation has cross-deputization agreements with 40 of them, so almost the entire area. Kanji also said that the Creek Nation had already opened discussions about civil and criminal authority with local officials in an effort to smooth out any disruptions.It can be hard to discern how the justices will rule on a case based on oral arguments, especially with a case as unusual as this one. Its worth noting, however, that Murphy and the Oklahoma tribes enjoy a key procedural advantage over the state and the federal government. Justice Neil Gorsuch recused himself from the case earlier this year because he previously served on the Tenth Circuit while it was heard there. A 4-4 split among the eight remaining justices would leave the Tenth Circuits ruling intact by default, as if the high court had never taken up the case.Since the Tenth Circuit ruled in their favor, Murphy and the tribes only need to persuade four of the justices instead of the usual five to win the case. Oklahoma, on the other hand, still needs to find a fifth vote from a smaller-than-usual pool of justices. Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Samuel Alito and Brett Kavanaugh focused their questions on the rulings practical impact, suggesting they may be receptive to a ruling in states favor. Justices Sonia Sotomayor, Elena Kagan, and Stephen Breyer struck a more favorable tone toward the Creek Nation. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg asked only a single question, while Justice Clarence Thomas kept characteristically silent. If those two justices take their usual sides, the Creek Nations reservationand Patrick Murphy with itwill live.	Liberal
Despite the Trump administrations decision to release it on Black Friday, a new federal government report about climate change made headlines anyway. The 1,600-page Fourth National Climate Assessment, which details how global warming is already damaging the United States, got significant airtime on the prime-time cable news programs this Sunday. Thats the good news. The bad news is that, during that airtime, non-experts made numerous false and misleading statements about the climate report and the scientists who wrote it. Those statements went largely unchallenged by the journalists in charge of gatekeeping the conversations. Its difficult to challenge falsehoods in real-time. But thats why high-profile political journalists like Chuck Todd and George Stephanopoulos get paid the big bucks. Plus, the majority of falsehoods spread about climate change on Sundays news programs werent exactly new or novel. They were the same global warming talking points Republicans have been using for several years. Theyre all easily refutable. Theres no reason why prominent political journalists shouldnt be able to do it by now.Take, for example, Iowa Senator Joni Ernsts comments on CNNs State of the Union. We know that our climate is changing, she said. Our climate always changes, and we see those ebb and flows through time. This is perhaps the most-repeated Republican climate change talking point in the history of Republican climate change talking points. Its sole purpose is to imply that the changes were seeing right now are normalwhich is objectively untrue. Despite regional variations, the earths climate as a whole has been stable for the last 12,000 years. Now, all of a sudden, its warming more quickly than any time in the last 66 million years. What evidence does Senator Ernst have that this is merely a coincidence? Why didnt the shows host, Dana Bash, ask her?Or take Danielle Pletkas comments on NBCs Meet the Press. Pletka is a foreign and defense policy expert at the conservative American Enterprise Instituteshes not a scientist, she told Chuck Todd on Sunday. Because of that, she said she doesnt know whether global warming is human-caused. But she does know this: We just had two of the coldest years, biggest drop in global temperatures that weve had since the 1980s, the biggest in the last 100 years, Pletka said. We dont talk about that, because its not part of the agenda.Wrong. Scientists and journalists dont talk about the last two years because short-term trends dont matter when measuring long-term climactic changes. Republicans always talk about short-term, local records when theyre trying to refute climate scienceits why Trump has been tweeting for years about cold temperatures during the winter. But when it comes to measuring climate change, all that matters is the long-term trend. And that long-term trend shows rapid warming. Todd needed only to cite this simple description of climate science in order to fact-check Pletka on Sunday. To be sure, he could have said moremaybe that the only reason the last two years were so much colder than 2016 was because 2016 was the hottest year ever recorded, or that 2017 was still the third-hottest year on record. But none of that happened, and thus a woman who freely admitted she was not a scientist was allowed to spread pseudoscientific gobbledegook on the countrys highest-rating Sunday morning news show. (For what its worth, Republicans have also been spreading unscientific nonsense while claiming theyre not scientists for several years.)Pletka and others on Sunday also went unchallenged in spreading baseless conspiracy theories about the 300 federal government scientists who wrote the new climate report. Pletka did this by wholly rejecting their findings while subsequently citing the agenda to explain her reasoning. Twice-failed Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum also accused scientists of having ulterior motives on CNNs State Of The Union. Look, if there was no climate change, wed have a lot of scientists looking for work, he said. The reality is that a lot of these scientists are driven by the money that they receive.The idea that climate scientists need climate change to exist in order to get paid is an old talking point, and a false one. The climate affects every living thing on earth. What happens when you emit a lot of carbon dioxide isnt the only thing climate scientists can, or do, study. Republicans who say climate scientists are getting rich off their research have never had evidence to support their claim. Their claim also strongly suggests they have never met any climate scientists, who as a group are hardly making global warming-related money hand over fist.No one should feel comfortable making any of these baseless arguments on national televised news programs. But Republicans have learned over the years that they canand that no one will refute them. Perhaps thats because political journalists on television simply havent learned enough about climate change; they havent been covering it that often, after all. Fortunately, theres a simple solution: If television hosts really cant be bothered to read the latest climate science in order to moderate informed discussions, book more people who can. I, for one, am available all week.	Liberal
Driving around the part of Fresno, California, where Shannon Brown spent much of her life feels a bit like entering an alternate, more insular version of America, something out of an earlier time. We passed a white woman holding a baby in a driveway. An older white man worked in his yard. A white woman walked a dog. There didnt appear to be a single person of color in the area, I said. Thats because there are none, Brown replied.Brown, 48, is white, with blond hair, pale blue eyes, and milky skin. She wore a checkered black-and-white dress, a silver cross dangling from her neck. Brown had nothing against diversity, she explained. She was just accustomed to living among people who look like herits the way she was raised. When she was growing up, her family discouraged Brown from associating with those people. They definitely did not like black people. We never had black people over, Brown said. My family wasnt overtly racist, she said, but they werent going to befriend nonwhite people or welcome them into their home. Her family members, like many residents of this part of Fresno, are polite racists, Brown said, the kind of people who smile to your face if youre a minority and call you a racial slur behind your back.White power organizations are not uncommon in Californiathe state actually has the most active hate groups in the nation, according to the Southern Poverty Law Centerbut Browns family disapproved of their criminal behavior, if not their ideology. The racism that Brown grew up with was rooted in the belief, Brown said, that Were better than them. They looked down on minorities but wouldnt go so far as to use violence against them.Still, for Brown, neo-Nazis were part of the social fabric of her California. They were her neighbors and acquaintances, people she would see from time to time, maybe even hang out with. One evening in 1996, when Brown was 26, she and a girlfriend from beauty school met up with a couple of guys they knew casually from around town. The four of them gathered at a local diner, and the men handed Brown and her friend blindfolds and invited them to get in their car. They were in the Ku Klux Klan, the men said, and they wanted to take Brown and her friend to a gathering at the secret klavern, a local KKK unit where the group held its meetings. This was new for Brown. Whats a klavern? she remembered asking. We didnt know what any of this stuff was. But she liked hanging out with the guys, and she was intrigued, so she got in the car.Brown remembered being driven around in what seemed like circles for a long time. Its a miracle we didnt end up in an orchard dead somewhere, she said. Finally they stopped, and the men led them into a house. Blindfolds removed, the women found themselves in a room of nearly two dozen skinheads, neo-Nazis, and men in white hoods, a mash-up of commingling white power factions. There was a pregnant woman in a grand robe, and a white power symbol was painted on the floora cross encircled in red. Brown wasnt afraid or disgusted. Instead, she found it alluring and exciting.As we drove around Fresno, Brown slowed to a stop in front of a pale-yellow one-story house adorned with yellow tulips, an American flag flapping on its solar-paneled roof. She pointed to the double-car garage. Thats it, Brown said. Thats where the klavern used to be. After that initial visit, Brown fell quickly and deeply into the KKK life. She started attending monthly gatherings at the house. Her family had always associated white power groups with criminality and violence, but Brown didnt witness any of that. To her, it just meant belonging to a social circle of people who shared the same beliefs and values that she did. She even fell in love and married one of the men who first brought her to the klavern.Together, Brown and her husband moved 125 miles south to Taft, California, near Bakersfield, a rural area, in a neighborhood far from any minorities. Her husband worked as a derrick hand on a drilling rig in the oil fields. He had two young kids from a previous relationship, and Brown helped raise them according to the hate groups ideology, in a world where they performed the Nazi salute and sported t-shirts with slogans like the original boys n the hood. Childrens birthdays involved cakes decorated with swastikas and iron crosses. Watching television was rare, except for Little House on the Prairie.Brown embraced the culture, abided by it. She was a housewife who quilted and cut hair. For fun, she practiced shooting guns, which were always around the house, with her family. At night, they occasionally attended cross burnings. She liked to listen to music from Johnny Rebel, a singer who rose to popularity among white supremacists in the 1960s and 70s with songs like In Coon Town and Ship Those N-----s Back. In public, Brown was still a polite racist like the rest of her family in Fresno, but her husband, who proudly wore his white power tattoos, wouldnt hesitate to verbally abuse minorities they encountered on the streeta habit that Brown said she found embarrassing. In private, however, racist views were expressed freely and openly. Ring that bell, shout for joy, white mans day is here, Johnny Rebel sang on their stereo. That life is all behind her now, Brown said. In 2000, she divorced her husband and cut ties with the Klan. Mainly, it was her husbands abuse that prompted her to leave. He was violent and controlling, and she had tried escaping from him several times, but he tracked her down. Finally, she managed to get back to Fresno, where he hasnt been able to locate her. If not for the abuse, Brown said, she probably would not have broken free from the Klan. I left everything, she said. I basically had to start over. For years, Brown didnt talk much about her former life, and most people didnt know about iteven her family wasnt aware that she had joined the KKK. She found a job at a hair salon with diverse clients and staff, including African Americans, and she worried what they would think of her if they knew about the contempt for them she had harbored. She watched on the news as the same Klan members shed once considered friends were arrested for hate crimes and unlawful possession of weapons, counting herself lucky not to be among them. And she has tried to atone for her racist past, speaking regularly to college classes and audiences at the Museum of Tolerance in Los Angeles about her past experiences with the Klan.Last year, Brown officially joined Life After Hate, a nonprofit organization founded by former white supremacists that works to help people leave extremist groups and start new lives. Groups such as Life After Hate have received increasing attention since Donald Trumps election. Modeled after similar organizations in Sweden and Germany, they aim to teach tolerance and support former white supremacists in a kind of recovery process. If youre ready to leave hate and violence behind, were here to support you. No judgments, just help, the Life After Hate web site declares. This involves breaking ties with hate group members, including loved ones, reintegrating into mainstream society, and trying to unlearn racism. Life After Hate received a $400,000 grant from the Obama administration to support its workfunding that the Trump administration stripped away in 2017.The goal of stopping hate and helping former white supremacists lead more virtuous lives is certainly well intentioned, but there is reason to doubt the effectiveness of any initiatives methods to reverse racism. Life After Hate, which formed as a nonprofit in 2011 and claims more than 30,000 supporters, says it has helped more than 100 people conquer their biases. Ending racism, it turns out, isnt as simple as cutting personal ties or deciding to stop hating certain groups of people.Shannon Brown, for example, admits that there are still things that trigger her prejudices: gay people, black people who listen to loud rap music, multiracial families. Something might set her off, and I just trigger into that indoctrinated kind of mindset, Brown said, her brain calling forth a racial slur, even though she knows that such thoughts are wrong. I might just see something like an interracial couple, and itll flip and then flip back real fast, Brown said. Sometimes I can control it, and sometimes its just on impulse. Hate is a powerful emotion that lodges itself deep within a persons psyche. Indeed, a growing body of social, psychological, and neurological research suggests that once racial biases and hateful ideologies embed themselves in a persons brain, they can be difficultif not impossibleto counteract. This research suggests an uncomfortable reality: that ending racism isnt something that can be achieved through a handful of counseling or therapy sessions, or anti-bias training. In addition to the efforts of organizations like Life After Hate, millions of dollars have been spent in recent years on high-profile anti-bias initiatives at companies including Starbucks, Facebook, and Google, as well as in police departments across the country. Yet there is little evidence that these efforts even work.Spending time with Brown, I could sense her struggle to keep her biases in check. The Klan had taught her to despise any kind of racial mixingparticularly white people mixing with other races, which threatened the purity of the white race. When I told Brown that my husband is black, and so are my kids, she looked offended. Interracial relationships are still a significant trigger for her; the idea that it was forbidden to marry a black man was pummeled into me, she said. I could practically hear the Johnny Rebel lyrics echoing in her head. Oh affirmative action, whats this country coming to? Affirmative action, whats the white man gonna do? I told Brown that I am also biracial; my mother is white. I didnt know you were mixed, she said. I assumed you were  you look Asian. Does it matter? I asked. Brown shook her head. Just a surprise. Outwardly, Brown kept her cool. But I imagined little pistons in her brain firing, synapses ablaze, racial epithets rushing to the tip of her tongue. Fighting the hatred inside her head can be exhausting, Brown said. Sometimes its just easier to let her old racist mindset reassert control. Even 20 years later, itll flip the switch, Brown said. And it sounds terrible to say it, but it actually feels good. Scientists have been working for more than a century to understand how racism operatesand how it might be cured. The notion that biases can be identified and overcome connects with early theories about how racism manifests in the brain. From the 1920s to the 1950s, psychologists studying racism considered prejudice to be a psychopathologya dangerous aberration from normal thinking, writes John Dovidio, a Yale University psychology professor, in the Journal of Social Issues. Psychologists employed personality tests to identify prejudiced people, with the hope of understanding how to treat them with psychotherapy, under the assumption that if the problem, like a cancerous tumor, can be identified and removed or treated, the problem will be contained, and the rest of the system will be healthy. By the 1970s, however, psychologists had developed a new theory. An individuals personality, character traits, and beliefs were predominantly influenced by the place in which she grew up and the people she was surrounded bynurture, in other words, not nature. Racial prejudice was a societal ill, something learned through a lifetime of conditioning and exposure to hateful ideasand therefore normaland not a disorder that could be treated medically in any one individual.Studies over the past two decades, however, have both clarified and complicated these ideas. Scientists now recognize that we are influenced by both our genes and our environmentsthe forces of nature and nurture work in tandem. On the one hand, stereotypes and prejudices are not innate. Racism is not simply an evolutionary reaction to an inherent human predisposition to be tribal. But there is a biological component to hatred and racism, which interacts with environmental factors. Studies show that growing up around people who espouse racist viewsor even simply in an environment that lacks diversitycan contribute significantly to how a person interprets race.Our brains have evolved to be really sensitive to differences in our environments, to novel things, said Jeni Kubota, a psychologist at the Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture at the University of Chicago. Those systems, because of the culture, have co-opted the processing of race. The brain categorizes people very quicklyfriend or foe, threat or non-threatbased on information it has learned, and if the brain makes its assessment using biased information, the results will reflect that bias. Unfortunately, that leads to horrible inaccuracies and in some cases life-and-death consequences, Kubota said. So the system thats really efficient in processing a lot of information can also lead to a lot of harm. New technologies have helped scientists understand more fully how the brain processes race. Advanced MRI scans have revealed that a network of brain regions associated with decision-making and emotional responses come into play when people assess someones race. One key area is the amygdala, which plays a role in controlling emotions, fear, and survival instincts, like the fight-or-flight response. When triggered by something considered a threat, neurotransmitters like norepinephrine, adrenaline, and dopamine are released into the amygdala. This process kicks the body into alert to protect itself. In scientific studies, white people have displayed increased amygdala activation in response to seeing black faces. These findings suggest that the study participants had developed negative stereotypes about African Americans, and their brains therefore categorized black people as threatening.Another region of the brain involved in the processing of race is the prefrontal cortex, often referred to as the seat of executive function. It is here that moral behavior is regulated and controlled. Individuals with damage to this region have experienced sudden, dramatic personality shifts, like the famous case of Phineas Gage, who was working on a railroad construction site in 1848 when there was an explosion. An iron rod rammed through the frontal lobe of his brain. Gage survived, but this previously polite man suddenly became crass, offensive, and rude. Individuals with neurodegenerative diseases that affect their prefrontal cortexes have also experienced stark shifts in moral behavior, including lewd sexual conduct, trespassing, assault, theft, and even sudden drug dealing.These cases have helped scientists understand how essential the prefrontal cortex is in filtering our behavioral choices, like not walking around naked, or stealing, or fighting, or telling someone that he is ugly or dumb. Many of us move through the world at times experiencing socially inappropriate feelings or urges, but we control how we react to them. Our healthy prefrontal cortexes regulate potentially embarrassing actions based on our impulses.Neuroscience shows that ordinary people recruit these brain regions when theyre interacting with people of other races, Kubota said, particularly if they have a motivation to not be prejudicial. Individuals who believe in equality and fairness, or who are aware of their own biases, she explained, seem to be exercising a kind of self-control, evident in the prefrontal cortex, over their behaviorkeeping prejudicial associations in check when they are thinking about or interacting with people of different races. Angela King, the co-founder of Life After Hate, grew up in South Florida and became involved with a gang of neo-Nazi skinheads when she was 15 years old. She inked white power tattoos all over her bodya swastika on her middle finger, SIEG HEIL on the inside of her bottom lipand talked about race wars while spreading hate propaganda. In 1998, when King was 23, she and some friends robbed a Jewish-owned store and assaulted the clerk. Weeks later, she was arrested, and the following year she was sentenced to six years in prison. One day, while smoking a cigarette with her back against a wall, King noticed a Jamaican woman eyeing her. King thought she was going to start a fight with her. Instead, the woman asked, Do you know how to play cribbage? The woman sat down next to King and taught her how to play the card game. King became friends with her, as well as her black friends. They questioned King about her beliefs while simultaneously showing her compassion and love. They were treating me like a human being, King said. It blew me away, because I didnt feel like I deserved it, and I wasnt expecting it. To receive that, its not something that you can ask for or would even know to ask for. Its a gift like forgiveness, that when you get it, it changes everything. King was released in 2001, after serving three years of her sentence. I knew I still had more changing to do, she said. I knew that I wanted to be a different person, but I was absolutely horrified, because I was afraid that my brain was hardwired. King had made friends across races. She had even fallen in love with a black woman in prisonfinally accepting an aspect of her identity that she had hidden from her homophobic skinhead friends. Yet she still struggled to keep racist thoughts at bay. No matter how many friends of color I made or how much interaction I had, I could see a person of color and my brain would automatically think a racial slur, she said. I was afraid that there was nothing that I could do myself to change it. She was determined, however, and kept working on it. After prison, King earned a degree from the University of Central Florida, where she studied psychology, anthropology, and sociology, and learned about white privilege. I literally walked around for the first few years talking to myself, she said. If I thought a racial slur or homophobic slur or felt a fear that was irrational, anything, I would literally stop myself and say, OK, Angela, why did you think that? King said she eventually got to a point where she was finally unwinding all of the garbage in her mind.Studies show that motivation contributes to how successful a person will be at keeping their prejudices in check. According to Jeni Kubota, if you deeply feel, Im a person who believes in fairness and equity, and Its part of who I am at my core, this internal motivation can help lead you to eliminate biases. But if a persons desire to not be prejudiced stems from the feeling that other people tell me thats bad, Kubota said, those external motivations are not usually enough to curtail or control prejudice. Without that internal motivation driving them, even people who actively try to be less biased will most likely fail.Prejudices and biases are rooted in longstanding, chronic, perpetual processes within the culture, said Calvin Lai, the director of research at Harvards Project Implicit lab, which studies bias. If an individual has grown up in a racist culture, fighting against that current of hatred requires enormous mental determination.Beyond her internal motivation, King also benefited from something else: meaningful contact with people of other races. The close relationships King formed in prison werent just the catalyst that motivated her to renounce racism; they provided an essential foundation for the entire process. According to Kubota, contact with people of different races has been shown to reduce bias in the brain considerablybut that contact has to be significant. It cant just be put us all together in a school and we segregate and never talk to each other, Kubota said. That can actually reinforce biases. But researchers have found that having meaningful friendships, beloved mentors, or bonds with different people over long periods of time can diminish these differences we see in the brain based on race, Kubota said.Angela King started Life After Hate with other former white supremacists because she wanted people like herself to know that they were not alone, and to offer them resources to help reintegrate into mainstream societycounseling, job training, mentoring, and peer support. A person may really be struggling with alcohol addiction, or theyre dealing with criminal charges, or any number of things. So when its possible, we will actually travel to people to do face-to-face interventions, King said. Other times, its done virtuallySkype, phone calls, social media, any way that we can connect with people. All of these things can play an important role in helping people break away from hate groups and get their lives back on track. But that doesnt mean theyve rid themselves of racist beliefs. King recognizes that the powerful transformation she experienced cannot be replicated easily. You cannot manufacture meaningful experiences for others, and you cannot force someone else to feel a strong motivation to change.Approaching someone out of the blue and just trying to talk someone out of their beliefs is not successful, King acknowledged. People dont want to hear that theyre racist. They dont want to hear that theyre part of a racist system, and that they are complicit in what is happening to their fellow human beings. As much as King believes in working to end racism, there are days when she feels like it is impossible. I honestly dont know how we move beyond this, especially as we progress with technology, she said. It is so easy for people to be so connected and disconnected at the same time. It would be nice to believe that people leave extremist groups because they suddenly realize that their views are ugly, hurtful, and prone to cause violence. However, according to research by Peter Simi, a sociologist at Chapman University in Orange County, California, most former white supremacists do not experience a sudden change of heart. In fact, moral reasons fall to the bottom of the list. Instead, as was the case with Shannon Brown, the decision to leave a hate group is almost always driven by a personal stimulus: a social or family feud, a divorce, an abusive relationship, a split between rival factions, a public shaming, a run-in with the legal system. The choice is rarely brought on by empathy for people they have been conditioned to despise. We call it defaulting back to the mean, Simi said. This is when people exit violent extremist groups, only to rejoin the polite racists. This is why former white supremacists like Brown often struggle with persistent racist feelings, even after theyve cut ties with their pasts. Counseling former extremists about their childhood, as a treatment method on its own, will not work. Simply exposing them to diverse people wont do the job either. Any solution will be more complex, because hate is more complex. Its a socially, historically, and institutionally bred behavior that embeds in the psyche. Solving the problem is not a matter of just getting someone to leave a hate group. Hate and racism become part of their core identity, Simi said, and for many who leave hate behind socially, abandoning it psychologically is a much harder process. Simi calls this the hangover effect. Hatred has an insidious way of hanging on, never quite disappearing, even for the ones who want to wish it away the most. Despite the research, historical notions of racism as a disorder that can be measured and treated continue to imbue modern race science. The widely used Implicit Association Test, for example, which measures how mental associations can influence behaviorhow our minds link concepts, assessments, and stereotypes about other peoplecharacterizes implicit bias as an infection we are exposed to throughout our lives. Psychiatrists Carl Bell and Edward Dunbar describe racism in the 2012 Oxford Handbook of Personality Disorders as a kind of public health pathogen. Such thinking about racism as a disease that can be treated has led some scientists to forge ahead in search of a neurological or pharmaceutical cure. The idea that, one day, people might be able to treat racism as easily as they alleviate heartburn is certainly tantalizing. Indeed, in 2008, a philosopher proposed the idea of a pill for prejudice, to reduce the influence of bias on judicial decisions, after the drug propranolola beta-blocker that relieves hypertension and reduces anxiety by interrupting stress hormones and is used to treat post-traumatic stress disorderwas found to also reduce implicit bias in a sample of white people for a short period of time. Other experiments have shown that it is possible to counteract racist thoughts at least temporarily. In six studies involving nearly 23,000 people, Calvin Lai found that playing up vivid counter-stereotypes was very effective at reducing biases within individuals. In one experiment, researchers asked subjects to imagine being kidnapped by an evil middle-aged white man, only to be saved by a dashing young black hero. Within minutes, the subjects had decreased the intensity of their biases and the speed at which they made prejudiced associations by 50 percent. Theres a catch, however: After just a day or a couple of days, Lai said, these effects fade away. The idea of implicit bias began to take off in American workplaces and society a decade ago, as corporations looked for alternatives to diversity training, an $8 billion effort that has been largely unsuccessful. Studies have found that, rather than encouraging participants to embrace people of all colors and creeds, forced classes on diversity often backfire, making people more defensive and divided. Implicit bias, by contrast, is rooted in the idea that we all possess inherent prejudices. Instead of mandating employee training on racial sensitivity, diversity awareness, compliance with antidiscrimination laws, and lessons on how to better integrate the workplace, companies in recent years have spent millions of dollars on new programs that train employees to recognize their biasesthe idea being that if we can simply acknowledge our prejudices and blind spots, we can overcome them. Implicit bias trainings often involve videos, slideshows, or personal anecdotes that reveal how a persons individual biases may influence a particular situation. Approaches include talking through experiences, writing privately about racist feelings, watching videos of racist incidents, role-playing, listening to personal stories of discrimination, and learning lessons about history and policy.Yet laboratory studies have shown that, like the diversity trainings, anti-bias initiatives may also be ineffective at combating racism. Some of the exercises probably do have an effect, Jeni Kubota said. The problem is they only work for a little bitthe same way the subjects in Calvin Lais experiment were only able to dampen their biases temporarily. Then you go back out in the real world, you get reinfected with these associations, and any cognitive intervention that you did diminishes over time, Kubota said.The problem with viewing racism in medical terms is that it confines racism to a disease in the body or mind, something biological that may be treatedeven curedwithout the need for larger societal changes. It assumes we can just fix it with a pill or download screensavers of Denzel Washington and Lupita Nyongo and all of a sudden you will stop being racista pain-free, recreational fix for what is hundreds of years of historically fraught problems, said Jonathan Kahn, a professor at the Mitchell Hamline School of Law in Saint Paul, Minnesota, and the author of Race on the Brain: What Implicit Bias Gets Wrong About the Struggle for Racial Justice. This is the frustrating reality of racism that science has illuminated. Much as wed like to believe that white supremacists exist on the radical fringe, and that what it will take to cure them is to reintegrate them into mainstream society, the truth is not so simple. Racism courses through mainstream society, too, lurking in the brains of people like Shannon Brown and her family. Similarly, corporate anti-bias trainings suggest a straightforward set of steps for alleviating prejudice. But the idea that bias is somehow inherent in all of usa fact of life, something normal and natural, which simply must be recognized and acceptedis deeply unsatisfying. Why should we settle for a society in which racism is allowed to persist? Neuroscience has exposed the shortcomings of the current approaches to combating racism. But it has also revealed that curing hate is theoretically possibleunder the right circumstances, and with enough mental effort. And one day, science may figure out a simple cure. To that end, researchers have started to study the members of hate groups more closely, to try to understand whether extreme racism operates in the brain the same way bias in the general public does. Simi, one of the leading experts in this field, has spent the last 20 years studying neo-Nazis in order to understand their motivations and behavior.In a pilot study this year, Simi and researchers at the brain development lab at the University of Nebraska used fMRI scans to compare five former white supremacists with nonextremists. The subjects viewed racially charged images, such as swastikas, Confederate flags, or images of people in interracial relationships. The brain scans revealed significant differences in neurological activity between the former white supremacists and the control group. So its not just a difference by random chance, Simi said. Most of the heightened activation was occurring in one part of the prefrontal cortex in particular, the region associated with regulating moral behavior.The pilot study is too small to draw conclusions, and Simi is working to expand the research to include a larger pool of former white supremacists, current white power group members, and nonextremists. But Simi believes he is on the path to identifying exactly how extreme racism operates in the brain. It is slow, expensive, difficult work, but the impetus for it, Simi said, came from his interviews with former white supremacists, who would tell him, I try and try, and I just cant stop hating people.	Liberal
For any authoritarian government, defining reality is crucial to exercising power. History becomes a series of myths that justify and animate the regimes actions; truth becomes a weapon to be wielded against enemies; lies become a shield for supporters and sympathizers to escape scrutiny. Trump has adopted one authoritarian trick after another to his playbook over the years. But obscuring truth with theater will always be his signature act.On Sunday, after a peaceful march protesting U.S. immigration policies on Sunday, some members of a Central American migrant caravan tried to cross the border at the closed San Ysidro port of entry. Border Patrol agents responded by firing tear gas at the crowd to drive them away. Among those caught up in the incident were young children traveling with their parents.Liberals were shocked. But conservative media outlets eagerly devoured the imagery. Fox News Channel aired wall-to-wall coverage of the saga over the past 48 hours, casting asylum-seekers as an invading force and justifying extraordinary measures to stop them. Rob Colburn, the president of the Border Patrol Foundation, told Fox & Friends that pepper spray wasnt harmful because you could actually put it on your nachos and eat it. Other commentators responded with unnerving enthusiasm. Watching the USA FINALLY defend our borders was the HIGHLIGHT of my Thanksgiving weekend, right-wing pundit Tomi Lahren wrote on Twitter.Cruelty, I noted in May, is both a means and an end for the Trump administration, which aims to curtail legal and undocumented immigration to whatever extent Congress and the courts will allow. And on Sunday, the sensationalism through which the administration carries out that cruelty was on full display. The White House, over the past two years, has taken every opportunity it could to exacerbate the tensions that ultimately led to this moment: threatening to close the border if migrants in the caravan tried to lawfully seek asylum, shutting down the channels by which they could obtain it, deploying thousands of soldiers to the border in a campaign stunt, signing an executive order to ban some asylum claims, and more. Its hard to see what more they could have done to manufacture the conditionsdesperate migrants denied internationally recognized legal processes for entryunder which Sundays clash unfolded.Favoring chaotic, freewheeling press scrums instead of reading policy memos, Trump prefers to govern by spectacle over substance. Immigration is one of the few policy spheres where he can do both. Whether consciously hewing to a premade plan or not, the White Houses sequence of policy decisions effectively engineered a border crisis with clear political benefits. With Democrats now set to retake the House in January, this penchant for governing through public surreality will only get more aggressive as his opposition gathers strength.Part of the problem for Trump and his allies is that, in absolute terms, there isnt really an immigration crisis in the way they conceptualize it. Measuring undocumented immigration can be tricky, but most indicators suggest it has been declining over the past ten years. Apprehensions for illegal border crossings have dropped sharply from their heights under the George W. Bush administration, for example, even as the amount of money spent on border control has more than doubled. Fewer children are born in the U.S. to undocumented parents each year. Almost one million fewer undocumented immigrants are believed to live in the U.S. now than before the Great Recession, when many of these trends began to change.The Trump administration already imposes labyrinthine barriers to people seeking asylum in the United States. The key threshold is whether an applicant faces a credible fear of persecution if they are returned to their home country. Many applicants fail to cross this hurdle: Immigration officials only granted 20 percent of the asylum requests made during the 2017 fiscal year, the last period for which full Justice Department statistics are available. Former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who oversaw the nations immigration courts, issued multiple rulings that raised the threshold for asylum claims even higher over the past year.Trump, like many authoritarian figures, understands the value of spectacle. In some ways, this is the defining trait of the presidents life. Trump captured the presidency by casting himself as a successful businessman whose vast personal fortune would insulate him from Washingtons corruption. His career, however, displays no extraordinary business acumen or particular skill at dealmaking. An exhaustive New York Times investigation earlier this year found that Fred Trump, the presidents father, used his own wealth to keep his son afloat as Donald bounced from one failed venture to the next throughout the 1980s and 1990s.What the president truly excels at is marketing himself. Even as his father kept open a spigot of cash to prop up his sons enterprises, Donald Trump cultivated a public image of wealth, extravagance, and success. In recent years, his image became an asset of sorts that he burnished with a reality-TV show and leased to hotel properties owned by savvier entrepreneurs around the world. Trump University, his defunct business seminar program, was the ultimate expression of this strategy. While it promised to reveal Trumps unique insights into real estate investing, the program often amounted to a predatory scheme to extract tens of thousands of dollars from financially troubled students. In a way, they learned the secrets to his success better than most.The president brings the same carnival-barker mien to governing a superpower. He showed little interest in the legislative details of the GOPs effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act last year, though he was ardent in demanding that it happen in some fashion. Trump took a similarly hands-off approach during the successful push to overhaul the nations tax code a few months later. Trumps priority was securing a victory, regardless of what form it took. Presidents dont always delve into the minutiae of the legislative process, but rarely are they so uninterested in it.This approach has occasionally backfired when it comes to administrative rule-making. Former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitts high-profile and ham-fisted efforts to roll back environmental regulations have fared poorly under judicial scrutiny, for example. (Andrew Wheeler, his more low-key replacement, has had better luck.) Perhaps the best example is Trumps Muslim ban, which initially began as a slapdash executive order that sparked chaos at U.S. airports and a swift rebuke from multiple federal courts. The Supreme Court ultimately upheld the third iteration in a deeply divided 5-4 ruling that Justice Sonia Sotomayor compared to Korematsu v. United States, the infamous 1944 ruling that allowed Japanese internment camps, in dissent.Whenever the courts rule against Trump on border-related matters, he responds by challenging the judiciarys legitimacy. After a federal judge in California ruled against his asylum ban earlier this month, Trump denounced him last week as an Obama judge and threatened to take action against the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, where hes been handed multiple legal defeats. That prompted an extraordinary rebuke from Chief Justice John Roberts. We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges, he told the Associated Press in a statement. What we have is an extraordinary group of dedicated judges doing their level best to do equal right to those appearing before them.Trump responded to the chief justice in his usual fashion. We need protection and securitythese rulings are making our country unsafe! he wrote on Twitter. Very dangerous and unwise! This is his strategy in a nutshell: to eliminate nuance, to flatten discourse, to polarize public opinion, and to delegitimize any obstacles in his way. George W. Bush and Barack Obama both sought grand bargains in Congress to change the nations immigration system. Trump, by comparison, is amplifying the nations divisions, aided by a feedback loop in the conservative media ecosystem and the executive branchs broad latitude in immigration matters.The benefits for the latest spectaclepurchased at the price of human sufferingare many. It helps shift the narrative away from the presidents shellacking in the November midterms, where Americans roundly decided to elect a Democratic House of Representatives to keep him in check. Stoking fear along the border distracts the growing economic damage wrought by his trade war, from his dwindling and dispirited White House staff, and from the ever-looming shadow of special counsel Robert Mueller. Telling the American people that hes saving them from hordes of criminal migrants and throngs of undocumented immigrants sounds better than admitting hes trying to leave office with a whiter America than when he was sworn in.The impact is most tangibly felt at the U.S. border, where hundreds of migrants find themselves in a bureaucratic purgatory of sorts while they wait for a chance to apply for asylum. Americans, too, could soon feel the brute force of Trumps approach to governance, however. With Democrats set to take over the House of Representatives in January, the president will have a new adversary to wrestle with. The looming threat of multiple Democratic inquiries into his administration, his businesses, and his campaign could prompt Trump to try similar hard-edged tactics to change the narrative. The spectacle, along with the all-too-real pain with which it is carried out, and from which it is intended to distract, is just beginning.	Liberal
I wish John Roberts was right.Last week, after President Trump denounced a federal judge who ruled against his administrations asylum policy as an Obama judge, the Chief Justice replied with a ringing defense of judicial impartiality. We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges, Roberts said. What we have is an extraordinary group of dedicated judges doing their level best to do equal right to those appearing before them.What Roberts described is certainly the ideal. And its true that the courts are not rendering their decisions on legislators or presidents instructions. But in practice, many judges do end up ruling on the same partisan side as the presidents who select them. As our country has become more polarized, so has our federal judiciary. And thats bad news for all of us.The federal judiciary extends far beyond the Supreme Court to 94 district courts, the various lower appellate courts, and a series of more specialized courts. But while some of those appointments are less politicized than others, the example set by the Supreme Court has become hard to ignore. For the first time in our history, going by University of Michigan scholars Andrew Martins and Kevin Quinns quantitative estimates of judicial polarization, we have a Supreme Court where every Republican on the court is more conservative than every Democrat. Gone are figures like John Paul Stevens, a Republican judge nominated by a Republican president, who usually sided with Democrat-nominated justices on the court. To take another example, Lewis Powell was a conservative Democratchosen by Richard Nixonwho often joined the GOP wing of the court.Nor do we have Anthony Kennedy, of course, who was replaced earlier this year by Brett Kavanaugh. Selected by Ronald Reagan, Kennedy joined Democratic colleagues in upholding abortion, gay rights, and affirmative action.But Kennedys status as a swing vote was somewhat exaggerated, blinding us to the overall increase of polarization on the Supreme Court. In recent years, Kennedy joined the liberal wing in 5-4 decisions between a quarter and a third of the time. But in his final term, Kennedy stayed with his fellow conservatives on every 5-4 vote.Meanwhile, the last two Supreme Court confirmations have proven beyond a reasonable doubtas judges would saythat the Court has become a blatantly partisan institution. Although Republicans like to point to the failed Robert Bork nomination in 1987 as an example of extreme partisanship in the confirmation process, the truth is that seven justices since then have been confirmed with two-thirds majorities. In 2016, however, Republicans in the Senate blocked a vote on Merrick Garland, Barack Obamas chosen replacement for the deceased Antonin Scalia. Then they rammed through a rule change to allow confirmation of justices by a straight Senate majority vote instead of the traditional 60-vote requirement, which allowed Trump nominee Neil Gorsuch to join the court in 2017 with only 54 senators supporting him.That was four more votes than Brett Kavanaugh received earlier this year, winning confirmation by the slimmest possible margin. In the first round of his Senate hearings, Kavanaugh tried gamely to present himself as an independent mind who operated above the partisan fray. Yet after Christine Blasey Ford leveled sexual assault charges against him, Kavanaugh went full-on right-wing conspiracy theorist: This whole two-week effort has been a calculated and orchestrated political hit fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President Trump and the 2016 election, fear that has been unfairly stoked about my judicial record, revenge on behalf of the Clintons and millions of dollars in money from outside left-wing opposition groups, Kavanaugh thundered at the Senate Judiciary Committee. The consequences will be with us for decades.No matter what you think about Kavanaughs performance, he was right about the process. Unless we do something to change the way we appoint and confirm the federal judiciary, it will become exactly what John Roberts fears: just another weapon in our partisan, take-no-prisoners political culture.We should start by restoring the 60-vote rule for Supreme Court confirmations, which would require presidents to nominate judges who could attract bipartisan support. Senate Democrats changed that rule in 2013, to ease the confirmation route for Obamas lower court and Cabinet choices, but they retained the 60-vote threshold for Supreme Court nominees. Then Senate Republicans applied it to the high court itself, which is the only reason Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh were able to join it. The best thing we could do right now is to go backwards, to the days when you needed more than a bare Senate majority to be on the Supreme Court.We should also start identifying judges who could draw support from both parties, which is what many other democracies do. In Germany, where judges must be confirmed by a two-thirds vote of parliament, political parties negotiate over court nominees and come up with judges who can pass bipartisan muster. Not surprisingly, between two-thirds and three-fourths of Germans express confidence in their highest court. By contrast, just 37 percent of Americans do. And even that number reflects a partisan split: whereas 44 percent of Republicans say they have strong confidence in the Supreme Court, only 33 percent of Democrats agree.So heres the challenge, for Americans of every political stripe: find judges from the other side of the aisle whom you could support, even if they wouldnt be your first choice. We should demand that our Senators do the same. That way, the next time theres a Supreme Court vacancy, we will already have a list of mutually acceptable candidates.The alternative is a country of Obama judges and Trump judges, of Bush judges and Clinton judges. Thats Donald Trumps nightmarish vision, of course, and John Roberts was right to criticize it. But were already living the nightmare when it comes to our federal courts. And only a renewed bipartisan spirit will jolt us out of it.  	Liberal
Did John Allen Chau, the Christian missionary killed two weeks ago by an indigenous tribe on a remote island in the Indian Ocean, deserve to die? There is the sense that, at the very least, the inhabitants of North Sentinel Island, part of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands located some 700 miles off Indias eastern coast, were justified in meeting Chaus insistent proselytizing with a hail of arrows. He invited that aggression, an Indian anthropology professor told the AP. That so few have raised ethical concerns about Chaus death makes this an extreme case, as if it lies outside any semblance of international law, in some space where only a blunt righteousness prevailsand it is this very quality, perhaps, that makes the story so compelling to audiences around the world. Chaus very presence on the island posed a danger to the Sentinelese, since they may not have developed immunity to the common microbes he carried with him. He also threatened their way of life: In recent years, given the growing consensus that modern visitors tend to erode the cultures of isolated tribes, the Indian navy has enforced a no contact policy with the Sentinelese and other tribes in the area, patrolling the waters to prevent infiltration by anthropologists and adventure-seekers alike.The 27-year-old resident of Vancouver, Washington, possessed qualities of both: an ardent desire to make a connection across cultures; a taste for the dangers of rough travel (the bio on his Instagram account identifies him as a snakebite survivor). For all his wide-eyed eagerness, he bore a strain of old-fashioned Western superiority that can afflict both the social scientist and the avid tourist. As a child he found inspiration in Robinson Crusoe, while he and his brother would paint our faces with wild blackberry juice and tramp through our backyard with bows and spears we created from sticks, as he wrote in an online forum in 2014. Chau also idolized the Victorian explorer and colonist David Livingstone, of Dr. Livingstone, I presume fame.Unlike an anthropologist, Chau was principally guided by religious faith, leading him to the conviction that the Sentinelese needed saving. Since 2015, he had visited the Andaman and Nicobar Islands at least four times, which heightened his obsession with the tribe. In the days before his final, fateful attempt to reach North Sentinel Island illegally on November 16, he was rebuffed in various ways, according to an extraordinary last letter he sent to his parents. He offered the tribesmen some fish, exclaiming, My name is John, I love you and Jesus loves you, only to be chased away with bows and arrows. He tried to sing to them, but was met with laughter. Another attempt to offer gifts resulted in a tribesman shooting an arrow straight through Chaus waterproof Bible, the symbolism so on the nose that another person might have taken it for a sign from above. But Chau was undaunted: You guys might think Im crazy in all this, he wrote to his parents. But I think its worth it to declare Jesus to these people.Chau represented a very contemporary kind of villain: wholly oblivious of his ingrained prejudices, a menace in his smiling condescension. Lord, is this island Satans last stronghold where none have heard or even had the chance to hear your name? he wrote. A few fellow zealots have described him as a martyr, but scholars and pundits have recognized, tacitly or otherwise, that he was asking for something awful to happen. Even his parents seemed to acknowledge that his murder was his own doing, saying in a statement, He ventured out on his own free will and his local contacts need not be persecuted for his own actions. They added, We forgive those reportedly responsible for his death. There has been no serious attempt yet to hold anyone accountable. There are few hopes that Indian authorities will even recover Chaus body, last seen being dragged, lifeless, across pristine white sands.It is hard to imagine another scenario in which an American citizen could be killed with what appears to be total impunityand not merely impunity, but with an accompanying notion that justice, however crudely, has been served. In other instances when Christian missionaries have plunged recklessly into hostile places like North Korea or the Taliban heartland, their frustrated governments have worked to secure their safety and release, under the legal and moral precepts that innocent people, no matter how misguided, should not be killed or jailed for attempting to spread their religious faith.Chaus case is different. It is basically a miracle that the Sentinelese, numbering as few as a few dozen people, continue to exist. Other indigenous tribes were wiped out when the British turned the Andaman and Nicobar Islands into a penal colony in the nineteenth century. Still others withered when they came into a more benign contact with anthropologists in the twentieth. It is no wonder the Sentinelese are wary of foreigners. For them to have successfully turned back yet another encroachment by the West, even in the figure of an irrepressible fool, seems like a rare victory amidst so much defeat. It feels like well-earned revenge.A post shared by John Chau (@johnachau) on Jun 3, 2017 at 5:16pm PDTBut this is where the storys underlying moral logic becomes almost too beguiling. Perhaps we want it to be that simple, for a mans life to cost exactly that of a trespass of sacrosanct ground. Just as the Sentinelese appear to modern eyes to stand outside of time, with their rough-hewn weapons and ocean-bound lives, so does their rough administration of justice, suggesting some iron decree that is immemorial, nearing the divine: Cross this line and you will be struck down. In much of the world, the rules that govern borders and sovereignty, that determine who can go where, are not so brightly defined. They are tacked together from a host of precedents and compromises, and riven with ambiguities and ethical pitfalls. Some people can cross, others cannot, and the difference is sometimes literally arbitrary, determined by lottery. There is nothing close to a consensus on what these rules should ultimately be, with the options ranging from walls to the abolition of borders altogether. At the root of this issue are fundamental questions about what it means to be a culture, a nation, a people. It is arguably the most divisive problem of our time, and easily one of the most explosive.Just last week, as news was spreading of Chaus death, no less a liberal eminence than Hillary Clinton declared that Europe must send a very clear messagewe are not going to be able to continue provide refuge and support to migrants. Clinton said this position was necessary because a flood of migrants to Europe, starting in 2015, had played into the hands of right-wing anti-immigration parties, feeding their popularity. The latter part of that statement is undoubtedly true, but critics pointed out that that is no reason to deny refuge entirely to those fleeing appalling conditions in their home countries.There is no equivalence between Clintons callous remarks and the hostility of the Sentinelesefor one thing, the dynamics at play between the powerful and the vulnerable in these two situations are reversed. But the comparison reminds us that the world we live in is necessarily imperfect and often unjust, because its laws are the product of competing claims made in pluralistic societies. The fascination with Chaus killing is multifaceted, but perhaps it is at least partly driven by the impossible fantasy of a world where solutions arrive with the directness of an arrows flightand where justice and the law are one and the same. 	Liberal
Back in 2012, Julie Keith was pulling out decorations for a Halloween-themed birthday party in Damascus, Oregon, when a handwritten letter dropped out of the box containing a fake tomb stone kit. It read: Sir, If you occasionally buy this product, please kindly send this letter to the World Human Right Organization. Thousands people here who are under the persicution of the Chinese Communist Party Government will thank and remember you forever. The letter contained details of how inmates were treated at the Masanjia labour camp in Shenyang, China, where the Halloween decorations were made. Inmates had to work for 15 hours a day, seven days a week for less than $2.00 a month. Refusal to comply would result in torture and beatings. The story captured the imagination of Canadian filmmaker Leon Lee, who managed to track down the author of the letter, Sun Yi, leading to a much-discussed film this fall telling the story of the treatment of the inmates of the Masanjia labour camp, many of them unjustly imprisoned for their participation in the outlawed religious group Falung Gong. This doesnt seem to be an anomaly: There are also reports of more such letters finding their way into consumer goods sold in the US and the UK. Technically, exporting goods produced by prison labour is illegal. Yet complicated supply chains make it difficult to ensure that the law is followed.Both liberals and conservatives champion the idea of free markets, not just for efficiency, but as a matter of morality, of ideology. A free market is portrayed as the mark of an open and fair society. What supposedly makes a free market free is not just the absence of central government planning, but also the freedom of the agents who operate within them. Within a free market, the story goes, individuals act in their own self-interest, driven by their needs and desires, purchasing the best available goods at the best available prices. What happens, though, when someone discovers that acting on the simple desire to put up holiday decorations renders them complicit in forced labour in a far-away country? The question of ethical consumption frequently pops up in public discourse as purchasing ramps up from Black Friday through the winter holidays. Some argue for more ethically conscious purchases from brands that claim not to use morally objectionable supply chains, whereas others simply want to ban Black Friday altogether, as a way of preventing the excessive consumerist behavior it brings out. But all of these proposals are attempts to sidestep a problem that, as the Halloween decoration incident showed, is increasingly inescapable in the global market.German critical theorist Theodor Adorno argued in the early twentieth century that true freedom in an unjust world is an impossibility. At the time, the global economy he and his contemporaries were critiquing was less developed than it would become. Today, the complex, globally interconnected nature of modern capitalist markets means that even mundane, everyday purchases can make us involuntary participants in the oppression of others.Theodor Adorno would not have seen the letter from Masanjia, implicating a mother putting up decorations in slave labor, as an anomaly. He and his contemporaries in the so-called Frankfurt School of interdisciplinary intellectuals in the 1930s saw such phenomena as fundamental to the very character of a modern, capitalist market. As individuals puzzled by the absence of a revolution within capitalist societies that Marx had predicted, and, later, by the establishment of death camps in a supposedly enlightened society, one of their fundamental interests was human agency and responsibility. Struggling to explain both phenomena, they started to focus not on individuals as the locus of responsibility for such events (or their absence), but on the ways in which institutional and societal structures condition and curtail human agency.Those raised long after Auschwitz might, at first glance, struggle to share the excessive pessimism about the limits of human agency of a critic personally targeted by the German police and forced to flee his homeland. Surely today, we might think, in Western liberal democracies, people do have genuine agency. But for Adorno, the kind of freedom we enjoy today is merely of a formal kind, one that leaves us feeling powerless. Free-market ideology, for instance, suggests we can act on our own self-interests and buy what we want (as long as we can afford it) without anyone getting in our way. And yet advertising and innovation play a huge role in determining what our desires and needs are in the first place. I never wanted to own a smart phone before they were invented, but now owning one seems almost a necessity for functioning in contemporary urban life. If you have little control over what your desires and needs are, can you really be said to be free?There is also a second way in which Adorno thought that having formal freedom does not amount to being truly free. Being free implies having moral responsibility, Adorno mused. But if you cant be reasonably held morally responsible for your actions, he argued, then you werent really free in the first place. And according to Adorno [w]e can only think of ourselves as responsible in so far as we are able to influence matters in the areas where we have responsibility.Thinking back to the letter from Masanjia case, it seems clear that one could not reasonably be held responsible for purchasing goods that were the product of forced labor, because there is no way in which, under ordinary circumstances, a consumer could have known the precise conditions under which the goods were produced. Worse, perhaps, even when we do know that the products we buy might be the result of morally objectionable practices, it seems there is little we can do about it. Its certainly unclear whether we can really have any influence over the unjust incarceration of a religious minority in a far-away country, or the practice of enforced labor in Chinese prisons. And as Adorno recognized, according to the logic of a capitalist free market, it is in our interest to buy the best goods at the cheapest prices, which often means at the expense of those who produced the goods. If we are part of a market system that incentivizes us to purchase goods whose origins we cant be sure of, that might be morally dubious, and over which we have no real influence, then, according to Adorno, we are not truly free. In an unjust world, it is not always possible to do the right thing.                              Adornos analysis can often come across as excessively defeatist. Its true that as individuals we have very little power over changing unjust structures that we involuntarily, or even without our knowledge, participate in every day. But it is also true that sometimes, people can mobilize and help change unjust practices.Either way, however, Adornos critique exposes the shallowness of the concept of freedom given to us by the free market. The freedom to choose what to consume conceals the fact that our agency and autonomy are compromised by innovation and marketing, and by objectionable production practices that are beyond our control. The idea of humans as isolated individuals, each pursuing their own interests, is a myth. We are far more socially interconnected to one another than this picture suggests, and our actions can have far-reaching consequences.The usual solution offered to the moral problems created by our participation in the global free market is to pursue a more ethically informed consumerism. But this solution suffers from the same false presuppositions that the idea of a free market does. It suggests that it is up to the individual to solve this problem, and that its simply our free choice to refuse to participate in production lines that rely on exploitation. What Adorno shows is that the structure of the capitalist market place we live in makes this nearly impossible. Instead of moralizing and shifting the blame onto the consumer, Adornos critique recognizes that the incredible moral burden we might feel in the face of stories like the letter from Masanjia is hugely disproportional both to our level of responsibility in all this, and to our power to make a difference as individuals. Instead of merely buying Fair Trade Certified goods, to truly change the system wed have to discard the false promise of freedom and unrealistic individualism that the free market promotes, and work towards developing a future morally engaged market and economic ideology that recognizes our interdependence in a globalized economy. Only then, perhaps, will being a consumer not amount to the morally fraught affair that it is today.   	Liberal
Almost exactly a year ago, Democrats did the unthinkable: They won a U.S. Senate seat in Alabama. Doug Jones, a former prosecutor, knocked off Roy Moore, the Alabama Supreme Court chief justice whose Senate run was undone by accusations that he had preyed upon teenage girls. It was a narrow victory, to be sure20,000 votes, roughly 1.5 percentage pointsbut still an extraordinary one. It pointed to a possible playbook for Democrats in the deep-red Deep South, albeit a playbook that required a supremely toxic figure like Moore. In Mississippis Senate race, Democrats may have found just such a figure. In a run-off on Tuesday, Mike Espy, a centrist Democrat best known for being the first African-American to serve as secretary of the Agriculture Department, will take on Cindy Hyde-Smith, who was appointed to replace the ailing Thad Cochran in the Senate earlier this year. An Espy win will not be easy. Donald Trump won Mississippi by nearly 20 points in 2016 (though, to be fair, Trump won Alabama by nearly 30). Mississippi has not elected a Democrat to the Senate since the Cold War, when it sent the ardent segregationist Dixiecrat John C. Stennis to Washington for the last of his eight terms. But while it is a long shot, a series of gaffes by Hyde-Smith have given Democrats hope that they can recreate the magic they found in Alabama a year earlier.Hyde-Smith only narrowly beat Espy in the midterm elections, earning 42 percent of the vote to the Democrats 40 percent. (In Mississippi, a runoff is triggered when a candidate does not receive more than 50 percent of the vote.) But her totals were likely driven down by the presence of Trumpist and apparent white nationalist sympathizer Chris McDaniel, who garnered 17 percent of votes. With McDaniel out of the runoff, one can expect his voters to move to Hyde-Smiths camp.Hyde-Smith has certainly spent the last few weeks trying to attract them. Less than a week after the midterms, she made some apparently pro-lynching comments at a campaign event. (Thats right: pro-lynching.)"If he invited me to a public hanging, I'd be on the front row"- Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith says in Tupelo, MS after Colin Hutchinson, cattle rancher, praises her. Hyde-Smith is in a runoff on Nov 27th against Mike Espy. pic.twitter.com/0a9jOEjokrHyde-Smiths comments unsurprisingly resulted in a huge wave of criticism. Hyde-Smiths decision to joke about hanging, when the history of African-Americans is marred by countless incidents of this barbarous act, is sick, wrote Derrick Johnson, the president of the NAACP. After Hyde-Smith refused to apologize, a number of corporate donors to her campaign, including Walmart and Union Pacific, demanded their money back. Then, a few days after the lynching controversy, she told supporters that maybe we want to make it just a little more difficult for college students to vote, another comment with ugly resonance given Mississippis Jim Crow history. And almost two weeks later, she posed for photographs holding a rifle and wearing a Confederate cap.Espy called Hyde-Smiths comments awful, but stopped short of describing them as racist. Still, her remarks likely agitated the Democratic base, which could be bad news for Hyde-Smith: In Alabamas 2017 special election, black voters turned out in droves to defeat Moore, who had fought to keep segregation in Alabamas constitution. An internal Republican poll found that Hyde-Smiths lead over Espy had narrowed to just five percentage points, according to The New York Times.That may explain why Hyde-Smith finally decided to apologize for her comments in a debate against Espy on Tuesday nightsort of. For anyone who was offended by my comment I certainly apologize, she said. But she then attempted to turn the controversy on its head and blame Espy, saying her words were twisted and used for nothing but political gain. Espy hit back: Nobody twisted your comments because they came out from your mouth. Hyde-Smiths comments, he continued, have given our state another black eye, by bolstering stereotypes we dont need anymore.Espy has an uphill climb. According to Vox, Democratic strategists have a clear goal for turnout: Thirty-five percent of Mississippis population is black, and Democrats need them to make up at least that much of the electoratepreferably more, of courseto have a chance. The centrist Espy is also hoping to pick off moderate Republicans. In Tuesdays debate, he distanced himself from his party and made the case that he would be a forceful advocate for his states interests, touting a Mississippi First approach. That means Mississippi over party. Mississippi over person, he said. I dont care how powerful that person might be. It means Mississippi each and every time. During the debate, he also underscored his strong positions on gun rights and promised to push for a strong immigration policy. Meanwhile, concerns about health care, one of the defining issues in the midterms, may help Espy, who has returned to the subject again and again on the campaign trail. Hyde-Smith claims that she supports coverage of pre-existing conditions while also demanding that the Affordable Care Act be repealed. (This common Republican position is, of course, nonsensical, and voters punished the GOP for it in other states.)Hyde-Smiths strategy is built entirely on base turnout. She has campaigned as a mini-Trump, and the real thing will be appearing at a rally with Hyde-Smith on Monday, the day before the election. I think we should definitely build that wall, she said in the debate. We cant have people storming our borders. Her gaffes may have hurt her campaign, and she may have used racist dog whistles against her black opponent, but she is not quite Roy Moore, a racist, a homophobe, and an accused pedophile. Still, if Mississippi is going to turn blueif only for a momentthe time is now.	Liberal
Every day, rescuers at the ongoing Camp Fire in Northern California are discovering a new body of somebodys loved one, burned or suffocated to death. Theyre often pulling these people from the ashy rubble of their former communities. This daily activity has no known end date; it must continue until all 870 missing people are found. And even then, the ultimate toll of what has become the deadliest wildfire in U.S. history will be unknown. For some, the long-term affects of breathing in smoke could bring about an earlier end to their lives.In the middle of a wildfire, exceedingly thick smoke can cause people to immediately asphyxiate. But more limited smoke exposurethe kind millions in the Bay Area are suffering from as a result of the faraway Camp Firecan also have a long-term effect. California as a whole already has the highest levels of particulate air pollutionotherwise known as smogin the United States. And as a new index released Monday by the University of Chicago shows, long-term exposure to high-level smog pollution takes a meaningful toll on human life. The new metric, known as the Air Quality Life Index or AQLI, is an attempt to quantify the long-term health impacts of inhaling particulate matter, which refers to tiny particles of material that can penetrate deep into the circulatory system and potentially infiltrate the central nervous system. Overall, the AQLI asserts that long-term exposure is reducing the average life expectancy by 1.8 yearsmaking it the greatest current threat to human health globally.Americans, for the most part, arent affected by this threat. The majority of smogs affect on human life expectancy comes from smog generated from fossil fuel plants in China and India. But Californians are certainly affected, as their state has the worst long-term air quality in the country. In many areas, the researchers behind the AQLI have predicted, particulate matter pollution has shaved one year off residents average life expectancy.Wildfire smoke is not helping this situation. In fact, some areas of the state now have more smog than the smoggiest cities in the world because of smoke drifts from the Camp Fire and other wildfires. This is producing short-term physical affects in some residents. I had a bloody throat, bloody nose, a cough, dry and watering eyes, and my throat is still very sore and dry, a UC Berkeley student told CNN. I almost passed out trying to go to class yesterday. My professor told me to go home.Long-term affects to wildfire smoke are still mostly unknown; most studies on the health impacts of particulate matter come from fossil fuel sources, not wildfires. As the San Francisco Chronicle notes, there are some differences between the two types of smog that scientists dont fully understand. Researchers do guess, however, that smoke from burned residential areas might be more toxic than a pure forest fire, because of the various chemicals contained within man-made materials. To look for clues on how long-term exposure might affect human health specifically, researchers are looking to fossil fuel pollution studies. Asthma and pregnancy issues thus top the list of potential risks, along with heart problems. When we talk about particulate matter, we always think, Oh, well, the target organ is the respiratory tract, the lungs, wildfire smoke researcher Kent Pinkerton told the Sacramento Bee, but far more people have problems with cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality due to PM exposure than respiratory conditions.But the AQLI has made one impact clear: The more humans are exposed to particulate matter, the shorter their average life expectancy becomes. And humans in California risk getting exposed to a lot more particulate matter as climate change worsens and exacerbates wildfires. Does that mean Californians are doomed to die earlier than the rest of Americans because of climate change? Not at all; in fact, Californians have the fifth-longest life expectancy of all state residents across the country. But it does mean tackling carbon emissions will be required for them to keep it that way.	Liberal
Gary Hart, the Democratic presidential candidate I worked for in 1984 and would have supported again in 1988, has been back in the news. The Front Runner, a film that presumes to explain the murky sex scandal that forced him from his presidential run in 1987, came out in late November. Prior to that, James Fallows, like me a longtime admirer of Gary, wrote a piece in The Atlantic speculatingon the basis of a supposed deathbed confession by the unscrupulous Republican operative Lee Atwaterthat the initial stage of the imbroglio may have been a setup that Atwater himself engineered.The renewed attention to these unhappy events should not obscure the important contributions Hart has made over the past 30 years to American government andeven more significantto American political discourse. He has participated in a panoply of councils and commissions. Most notably, he was co-chair, along with former New Hampshire Senator Warren Rudman, of the U.S. Commission on National Security/21st Century, which predicted massive terrorist attacks on American soil, possibly involving airplanes, shortly before 9/11. Such activitiesin which he has served the government in his capacity as a private citizenare very much in keeping with the ethos of civic republicanism, the political-philosophical tradition that, after shuttering his campaign, Hart came to embrace as his own.The overarching goal of his intellectual journey, he told me recently, was to establish a connection between democracy and citizen participation. His quest led him early on to the work of American historian Gordon S. Wood, who in his writings elaborated on the decisive influence that the republican tradition had on Americas founders. (A review by Wood appears on page 46 of this issue.) Reading the historian, Hart said, A light went off in my head: Democracy is about rights, republicanism is about duties. The realization transformed his thinking. My mantra became, we must protect and secure our rights by the performance of our dutiesmeaning participation in self-government. Hart also discovered Jeffersons concept of the ward, or elementary republic, as the forum for citizen participation, a unit small enough to mimic the Greek assemblies that governed ancient Athens, where both democracy and the republican tradition were born.In the early 2000s, Hart repaired to Oxford University, where he earned a D.Phil. in Politics, at the age of 64, with a thesis entitled Restoration of the Republic: The Jeffersonian Ideal in 21st Century America. In calm, measured tones befitting a doctoral dissertation, the work queried whether the United States could still be legitimately classified as a republic. Fourteen years later, Hart presented a more acerbic version of his views on the subject with the 2015 book The Republic of Conscience. Explaining the definition, according to classical republicanism, of corruptiongovernment officials putting their own personal interests ahead of those of the general public and the common goodHart describes the American government as massively corrupt, detailing a permanent political class consisting of a network of lobbying, campaign fund-raising, and access to policy makers in administrations and lawmakers in Congress ... based purely and simply on special and narrow interests.The examiners of Harts Oxford thesis had written, Hart clearly believes that the Jeffersonian picture is one of increasing relevance to the United States, and the thesis is at times a powerful piece of advocacy for that picture. What, exactly, is the Jeffersonian picture? Historically, successful republics had always been small in size, but the Founding Fathers were establishing a republic they hoped would eventually stretch sea to sea. To address the problem of size, they borrowed Montesquieus concept of a federated republic, which they combined with a system of electoral representation, a relatively new political concept at the time. Jefferson, however, criticized this plan for not creating any public space for direct citizen participation in government, and later he advocated for very small townships his ward republicsin which citizens could debate and settle issues specific to their area alone, such as those involving local public schools. Enter, again, James Fallows. He and his wife, Deborah, published an important book this year, Our Towns: A 100,000-Mile Journey Into the Heart of America. The Fallows sought out, in towns and smaller cities across the country, examples of people working across ideological lines to accomplish projects of benefit to the whole community. Overwhelmingly, the couple observe, the focus in successful towns was ... on practical problems a community could address. The more often national politics came into local discussions, the worse shape the town was likely to be in. And the most successful towns, they concluded, were those with the most distinctive, innovative schoolsthe kind, one may hazard to guess, a ward republic might be wont to create.	Liberal
One hundred and fifty-five years ago this week, Abraham Lincoln traveled to Gettysburg, Pennsylvania to give a two-minute speech. He and other dignitaries gathered to honor at least 23,000 Union soldiers who gave their lives on the field of battle that summer. Those young men fought, Lincoln said, so that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedomand that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. They died so that the Union and American democracy itself could live.This weeks New York magazine offers a rebuttal of sorts. Journalist Sasha Issenberg published a lengthy meditation that asks whether the United States should be broken up. He readily admits that this is not a new idea. Contrarian writers revisit the idea every few years as they fret about the nations political divisions. Fringe secessionist movements in Alaska, California, and Vermont wield virtually no political influence. Presidential elections, where the nations red/blue divide is laid bare, often lead to an uptick in chatter on whether our politics can long endure.Issenberg, to his credit, adds a new twist on the concept. Most of the article is framed around interstate compacts, a constitutional mechanism that allows the states to create binding legal agreements amongst themselves. Issenberg fleshes out the idea that Congress could effectively transfer its interstate policy-making powers to the states by giving them a blank check to write these compacts. (Currently, Congress has to sign off on any substantive agreement between the states.) Red states and blue states could then band together with like-minded neighbors to pass their own common laws on healthcare, organized labor, housing, the environment, and more.This doesnt sound like secessionism, of course. But Issenberg acknowledges that it may lead there. It may be time to take the country apart and put it back together, into a shape that better aligns with the divergent, and increasingly irreconcilable, political preferences of its peopleor at least to consider what such a future might look like, if for no other reason than to test our own resolve, he wrote. An imagined trial separation, if you will.Yet its hard to look at this hypothetical and not come away convinced that a truly united United States is vastly better than the alternative: Many of the problems Issenberg identifies can be tackled through existing mechanisms, albeit with some effort and organizing. Separating the states would instead entrench partisan divides into American political structures, giving permanence to what may be fleeting political moods. It would diminish the social and cultural influence of millions of Americans, particularly communities of color in the red states. And it would raise the specter of armed conflict on North American soil for the first time in a century.In fact, individual states already have ample tools to act beyond the federal government if they wish it. In the last two years, for example, California passed a net-neutrality bill, raised emissions standards for cars, and declared itself a sanctuary state to resist federal immigration policies. (The Trump administration is waging a legal battle against all three measures.) Ive written about how liberals can still use state courts and state constitutions to pursue their legal agenda even as the federal judiciary drifts further to the right.Attempting to unravel the Union, on the other hand, would mark the beginning of the end for Americas experiment in self-government. It isnt anti-democratic in the sense that it favors authoritarianism; what it rejects is the idea that American democracy can still work at allthat a vast, multicultural nation can resolve differences and tackle problems through compromise and consensus. The rough-and-tumble politics that characterize a democratic society under the dissolutionist view are seen not as a process to engage with, but a flaw to be corrected. The active goal of such a plan would be a patchwork system of stagnant, ultra-majoritarian governments where power could not be persuaded.Americans have the right to alter their political structures as they see fit, of course. Dismantling the Union, however, would be a permanent solution to what is essentially a transitory political problem. Consider the Jesusland map. The 2004 viral illustration depicted a United States of Canada formed by the states that voted for John Kerry in that years election and their northern neighbor, while the states won by George W. Bush devoted themselves to cultural conservatism. The map seems almost quaint today. Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, and Virginiaall Jesusland states a decade and a half agoare now solidly blue. Democrats even made strong showings in Georgia and Texas during this years midterms, while Florida remains as narrowly divided as elsewhere. Had Issenberg published his article after the 2004 election, his system would have sorted millions of Americans into an ideological group that they would soon abandon.Whats more, many states politics cant be easily reduced to their color on a map. New England will send a virtually all-Democratic delegation to Congress after this years midterms, leaving Maine Senator Susan Collins as the regions last GOP lawmaker. At the same time, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Vermont are all currently led by popular Republican governors. Voters in Idaho, Nebraska, and Utah simultaneously chose to expand their states Medicaid programs under the Affordable Care Act, while also sending a slate of Republican lawmakers back to Congress who largely support repealing the landmark healthcare law.On many issues, Americans arent as sharply divided as the political rhetoric suggests. Polls often show widespread support for a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants in some form. Almost two-thirds of Americans think marijuana should be legalized. Few issues are as divisive as abortion rights, but a July poll found that 71 percent oppose overturning Roe v. Wade. A whopping 90 percent support universal background checks for gun ownership. Theres even a strong consensus in liberal and conservative policy circles that mass incarceration should be rolled back, though the two sides often disagree about the solutions.So why doesnt national policy reflect these views? Congress, for one, is a politically impotent institution. Former Speaker Newt Gingrich helped transform the House of Representatives into a hollow theater for partisan spectacle by waging permanent political campaigns and shredding bipartisan legislative norms. He also shut down nonpartisan sources of expertise like the Office of Technology Assessment, Congresss in-house advisory body on tech issues. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had a similar impact in the upper chamber, where he nudged the once-collegial body into maximalist partisanship and constitutional hardball. Republicans shoulder most of the blame for Congresss decline, but leaders from both parties have contributed by centralizing their power at the cost of traditional avenues for legislative work.The average American also exercises less influence over their elected representatives than in years past. Republicans today enjoy a cascade of structural advantages that insulate them from the popular will. President Donald Trump captured the presidency despite losing the popular vote by almost three million ballots, then appointed two Supreme Court justices who will secure a conservative majority for at least a generation. A decade of partisan gerrymandering by the GOP forced Democratic candidates to win by overwhelming margins just to secure a majority in the House. The red states fare little better: Voter suppression in Georgia appears to have secured Governor-elect Brian Kemps razor-thin victory, while warped legislative maps in Wisconsin allowed Republicans to keep control of both houses while Democrats got more statewide vote.Many of these problems are ultimately fixable. Redistricting reform at the state level, a new Voting Rights Act at the federal level, statehood for the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and decentralizing power in Congress are all practical options in the near-to-medium future. Maines experiment in ranked-choice voting, if adopted more widely, could give voters more options beyond the two-party system. Abolishing the Electoral College would also be a worthy long-term fight. If nothing else, these solutions are at least less extreme than dissolving the Union.In the end, any dissolution would still raise the question of how states would resolve conflict. Issenberg proposes a system based on an unwritten truce. To kick off the Federation Era, the [governors of California and Texas] meet on the steps of the United States Supreme Court for a photo op, he wrote. Shaking hands, the men and their attorneys general pledge not to support any legal challenge to the others authority for two decades. Like any norm, this legal ceasefire would work until it doesnt. Say, for example, that Nevadas water problems get even worse over the next few decades. The state is already under siege by a steady influx of new residents that increases demand, and a persistent drought thats reducing supply. Climate change will only make things even worse. Suppose that, ten years into this brave new world, the state were to pull out of the Colorado River Compact and start diverting even more water to keep Las Vegas afloat. What recourse would California and the blue states have to remedy the situation outside of the courts?In the 1930s, Arizona and California waged a cold war for control of the Colorado River and a proposed dam that would divert more water to the Los Angeles area. The standoff peaked in 1934 when Arizona Governor Benjamin Moeur called up the states National Guard and deployed it to halt construction of the Parker Dam, defying the six states then belonging to the interstate compact and the federal government that was overseeing the project. The Roosevelt administration appealed to the courts to block Moeur from obstructing the work. The Supreme Court, however, ultimately sided with Arizona and vindicated the states use of military force.Cooler heads ultimately prevailed, Arizona soon joined the compact, and the Parker Dam stands today. In a weaker system, however, it would be easy to imagine that conflict having gone further than it did, even without todays hyper-partisan atmosphere. Testing that hypothesis hardly seems worth the risk. To borrow a line from former UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjld, the Union exists not to bring Americans from heaven but to save us from hell. It also gives form to an immutable truth about human politics: We are all, for better or worse, in this together.	Liberal
On Monday, 16 conservative Democrats took their shot at Nancy Pelosi, who is expected to easily win the speakership when the 116th Congress convenes in January. Its an odd, futile rebellion, one that underscores the incoherence of a lot of Pelosis critics, particularly in right-leaning districts. One problem, among many: An alternative to Pelosi is never named. Ohio Democrat Marcia Fudge is considering a challenge, but she didnt even sign the letter. The letter itself fails to mention specific criticisms of Pelosis past performance, or of the aims she has set for the next Congress. It does not say what the conservative antagonists, who are decidedly to the right of their fellow Democrats and more likely to vote with President Donald Trump, think a Democratic-controlled House should try to accomplish. Instead, the letter falls back on a familiar gripe: that Democrats need younger leaders and that means replacing the 78-year-old Pelosi. Our majority came on the backs of candidates who said that they would support new leadership because voters in hard-won districts, and across the country, want to see real change in Washington, the letter reads. We promised to change the status quo, and we intend to deliver on that promise.Its true that Democrats should develop the next generation of leaders. Pelosi herself has acknowledged the need for new blood, saying, however believably, that she would have stepped aside if Hillary Clinton had won the White House in 2016. But the protest against Pelosi is more about the San Francisco liberals unpopularity, particularly in the purple rural and suburban districts represented by letter-signers like Ohios Tim Ryan (who challenged Pelosi for the role of minority leader two years ago) and incoming freshman Abigail Spanberger of Virginia. And it ultimately says less about the strength of Pelosis position than the weakness of conservative Democrats as we head into the 2020 presidential cycle.The last time Pelosi was speaker, from 2007 to 2011, the conservative Blue Dog coalition was enormously influential. Today, even with gains in suburban districts, its a shadow of its former self. Pelosis previous tenure was defined, in part, by the split between liberals like herself and the Blue Dogs. In the 116th Congress, it will be defined by the tensions between Pelosi and her left flank.During the last Democratic wave election, in 2006, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee claimed that it was focused on finding candidates who could win, regardless of ideology. This is not a theoretical exercise, Chris Van Hollen, a Pelosi lieutenant who has since moved to the Senate, said at the time. The goal is to win this thing. In dealing with candidates, we dont have an ideological purity test. In practice, however, that meant that conservative-leaning Democrats were pushed in Republican-leaning districts. The move paid off, with Democrats winning control of Congress in a rout. By the time Barack Obama entered office in 2009, there were 54 Blue Dogs in the House.That meant that they were in a position of power during the brief period in which President Obama commanded majorities in the Senate and the House. They used their clout to successfully scale back the ambitions of both Obamas stimulus package and Obamacare. The former ended up being smaller than what was required to fully ameliorate the effects of the Great Recession, while the latter was deprived of a public option, among other flaws.Ironically, the Blue Dogs hedging didnt help them at all. In the disastrous 2010 midterms, they were practically wiped outless than two dozen members kept their seats. The trouble with representing purple and red districts, it turns out, is that they are very vulnerable in wave elections.The 16 rebels who are pushing for a new speaker belong to a mix of right-leaning Democratic caucuses, including the Blue Dogs, and overall are significantly more conservative than the rest of their conference. But while moderate and conservative Democrats could bend the party to their will in 2009 and 2010, they dont have as much leverage now. While there is significant overlap with the pro-business New Democrat Coalition, which saw significant gains during the midterms, that group is more aligned with Pelosis big-tent approach. The New Democrat Coalition has yet to endorse Pelosi, and are demanding rules changes to ensure lawmakers have time to read bills and that operations in the House are more transparent, according to The Washington Post. They also want the speaker to shield them from politically perilous votespresumably on progressive policy issues. If the group of rebels want to make a serious run at Pelosi, theyll have to recruit her critics on the left. The Progressive Caucus will be the largest Democratic faction in next years Congress. Pelosi has seemingly recognized this, wooing its members and incoming stars like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. Last week, the Progressive Caucus endorsed Pelosis run to reclaim the speakershipin exchange for more power.According to Politico, Pelosi agreed  to give the Progressive Caucus proportional representation on what lawmakers call the A committees: the Appropriations, Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, Financial Services and Intelligence committees. Members of the Progressive Caucus are also expected to take key positions in leadership as well.Tellingly, Pelosi has thus far welcomed the challenge from her conferences right flank. She flexed when asked about a potential challenge from Fudge last week, telling her would-be rivals: Come on in, the waters warm. It is not only that Pelosi is unafraid of her conservative critics. She also rightly sees an early challenge as the best way to solidify her support and to gain the 218 votes she needs to become speakerand theres nothing like the threat of a more conservative leader to shore up her left flank. The more interesting question is how Pelosi will balance these factions once elected speaker. While there are far fewer conservative Democrats today than there were eight years ago, the influx of Democrats representing suburban, purple districts means that there will be plenty of jumpy freshmen concerned about attack ads tying them to Pelosi two years down the line. On the other hand, progressives feel empowered after a strong election. Already, hackles are being raised about reports that Pelosi was considering a pledge to not raise taxes on the bottom 80 percenta promise that would make a number of progressive policy proposals virtually impossible to enact. Significant splits in the conference could emerge, especially if the House considers infrastructure, criminal justice reform, family leave, or other legislation where there is potential to work with Republicans. But the overarching dynamic is that Democrats in the House will have to contend with a Republican-controlled Senate and White House, which will bottle up much of their agenda. To pass anything of significance, Democrats will have to regain the presidency first, and at that point Pelosi really may have have retired. Either way, as the 2020 presidential primary unfolds, the Democrats will have a new standard bearer. That person may come from the partys left wing, or from Pelosis liberal wing. But it almost certainly wont come from the faction currently challenging Pelosis leadership.	Liberal
On June 27, 2001, Ali Takpr drove to the market in Hamburg to buy cigarettes. When he returned to his familys store he noticed a dark liquid on the floor: a pool of blood. Behind the counter lay his son Sleyman. I put his head in my lap, he said afterward. He was trying to tell me something, but he couldnt anymore. It would take ten years for Takpr, a Turkish-German who had lived in Germany for decades, to find out what happened to his son.The mystery began to unravel with a seemingly unrelated incident. On November 4, 2011, police closed in on a trailer in Eisenach used by Uwe Mundlos and Uwe Bhnhardt, who they suspected had robbed a bank nearby. When the police arrived, Mundlos and Bhnhardt killed themselves and set fire to the trailer. Hours later, a woman named Beate Zschpe set fire to an apartment in Zwickau that she had shared with the two men, and fled. On the run, Zschpe mailed out several copies of a video claiming responsibility for a slew of killings and bombings stretching from 1999 to 2007including the murder of Sleyman Takpr.The video, a ghoulish document that combined footage from the crime scenes with jokey bits involving the Pink Panther, made clear that these events were part of a campaign of rightwing terror that had never been recognized as such by authorities when it was unfolding. Zschpes neo-Nazi group, which called itself the National Socialist Underground (NSU), had murdered ten people throughout Germany and maimed many others.With the exception of a policewoman, all the victims were gunned down execution-style in their places of business in broad daylight, with the same Ceska pistol fitted with a silencer. Eight of the victims were Turkish or German citizens of Turkish background (one was Greek). The policewoman, Michle Kiesewetter, was the only victim the terrorists would have considered authentically German. The NSU also set off a bomb at a Turkish caf in Nuremberg in 1998, and two more bombs in immigrant areas in Cologne in 2001 and 2004. They committed at least 15 bank robberies to finance their life underground.   When Zschpes video was released, the awful scope of the NSUs terror campaign shocked the country. Chancellor Angela Merkel met with the victims families to offer apologies. German media framed the NSUs actions as a national shame. The Bundestag and the German state parliaments convened investigative committees to find out why the police were unable to connect the dots on a neo-Nazi killing spree. A trilogy of movies aired on national public television, while plaques and memorials mark many of the crime scenes. Hamburg even renamed a street after Sleyman Takpr. To most Germans these modes of memorialization were familiar: They explicitly followed scripts established around Nazi crimes and the Holocaust. This was surely a sign of how seriously Germans took the NSUs actions. But, in a curious way, the response turned out to be too much and too little at once. Despite a media onslaught, few were willing to examine the conditions that made the NSU possible in the first place. Exhausting levels of detail piled up, but central questions remained about Germanys relationship to Nazism past and present.The criminal trial of Beate Zschpe and four suspected accomplices began in 2013 in Munich. Any hope that the trial would provide answers to those questions was quickly dashed: The proceedings degenerated into an enervating, confusing morass. Neo-Nazis were a menacing presence inside the courtroom and outside of it. Most of the defendants did what they could to slow down the trial. Zschpe remained almost entirely silent, communicating through lengthy statements read by her attorneys. Press accreditation was severely curtailed, while questions the victims families had put before the court through their attorneys were ignored.The trial ended only in July of this year. Last month, a small publishing house in Munich released the transcripts in a book, NSU Prozess. Das Protokoll (The NSU Trial. The Record.). The document not only gives Germans a full, unadulterated record of the trial for the first time, but also demonstrates how deeply rooted neo-Nazism is in certain parts of German society and how ill-equipped the German state is to tackle this challenge.The questions raised by the trial eerily echo those raised by the seemingly unstoppable ascent of the far right in Germany in the past decade. The same year the trial began, the far-right party Alternative for Germany (AfD) formed. The next year it won 12 percent of the vote in Brandenburg state, and by this fall it was represented in all 16 German state parliaments. In the 2017 federal election, it won 12.6 percent of the vote, marking an ominous turning point in Germanys postwar politics. The AfDs specter loomed over the proceedings in Munich. Would the German state be able to act as a guardian of a pluralistic, multi-ethnic country? Would the general miasma of national shame congeal into a specific account of who bore responsibility? And would this lengthy trial shed light on what had made the NSU possibleon what had allowed it to thrive and murder in the shadows for nearly ten years?In the books introduction, the four journalists who compiled the transcripts of the trialAnnette Ramelsberger, Wiebke Ramm, Tanjev Schultz, and Rainer Stadlercome to a clear conclusion: The trial did not succeed. That is because, they say, the prosecution was focused above all on the five defendants, and declared any mutterings of a more systemic problem a will-o-the-wisp, like the buzz of flies in our ears. That this buzz came from the victims relatives seemed to matter little.In addition to being a historically important document, the book is simply an astonishing object: 2,000 pages, five volumes, crammed so full of information that the bios of the authors are included only as a small insert. This in spite of the fact that, since the NSU trial was neither televised nor recorded, the four journalists had to literally stenograph what they heard in the courtroom, day after day, for 438 days.Keeping track of the cast of characters alone was no easy task. German law allows victims to hire attorneys to function as co-plaintiffs attorneys, who can call and cross-examine witnesses. So while the governments prosecution team was composed of three jurists, the victims of the NSUs killings and bombings were represented by 58 attorneys. The five defendants, for their part, had a grand total of 14 attorneys present; Zschpe herself began with three, whom she tried to fire halfway through the trial. The judge ruled that they had to remain by her side anyway, and for years Zschpe, her new attorneys, and her fired attorneys shared a bench without her dignifying her former attorneys with a single glance.For 248 days Zschpe remained silent. Then she had her new legal team read a statement that disavowed everything. She had once been a Nazi, she claimed, but had changed her ways while living underground. Mundlos and Bhnhardt had continued to murder in the name of her old ideology without her involvement. Her co-defendants, as the editors point out, represented different facets of German neo-Nazism. There was Ralf Wohlleben, a functionary for the far-right NPD party who seemed eager to lay claim to a bourgeois sort of respectability; Andr Eminger, a tattooed skinhead and self-declared committed national socialist; Holger Gerlach, a dimwitted loser who had finally found a tribe; and Carsten Schultze, who had left the neo-Nazi fold decades ago and genuinely seemed stricken about what he had allowed to happen.Both Wohlleben and Schultze were indicted for their role in procuring a weapon for the killers, Eminger as an accessory to the bombings and several robberies. He and Gerlach were further indicted for the formation of a terrorist group. Zschpes defense argued in closing that neither Zschpe nor the other defendants could be said to be have formed a terrorist group, as German law requires a group to have at least three members. The lawyers claimed their client was unfairly tied to Bhnhardt and Mundlos, simply because she lived with them for the entire duration of their crimes. Where the prosecution saw a group, the defense wanted the judges to see only individuals, who may have been friends and roommates, and who may have shared an ideology, but did none of the things they did in concert with one another.The transcripts show how carefully the prosecution punctured that fantasy: They were able to connect the fairly obvious dots suggesting that, yes, these people meant to start a terror cell when they first went underground in 1998, and, yes, their helpers either knew what they were doing or had a good-enough idea. But the editors point out that the trial went beyond the crimes of these five defendants. They call it a deep core drill into German history, unearthing dangerous sediments underneath a surface of economic prosperity and seemingly firmly established democratic values. In her closing arguments, the federal prosecutor Annette Greger claimed that the motive of all these crimes was a far right ideology, the fever dream of a country free of foreigners, and the intention to shake this free, this friendly country, in which we live, to its core, in order to prepare the ground for a disgusting Nazi regime.In other words, the prosecution found itself in the somewhat schizophrenic position of wanting to establish a conspiracythese five people, plus the two dead ones, had been an organizationbut not too much of one. They aimed not only to secure verdicts against these five defendants, but also to position their crimes as malignant outliers in this free, this friendly country. But the victims attorneys presented a different story: Whatever else the NSU was, it wasnt an outlier. Rather it was deeply consonant with a cruel, nationalist streak in German politics that is only getting stronger.From the day the NSU was finally discovered, the central question was how they had been able to carry on in secret for so long. There has long been a sense that German security forces are blind on the right side, as Germans put it. For the Federal Criminal Bureau (BKA) and the Constitutional Protection Service (BfV), terrorism invariably meant left-wing terrorism. And since 9/11, it had meant either left-wing or Islamist terrorism. As in the United States, the security forces frequently downplayed or ignored right-wing violence altogether. They were unwilling to recognize any larger structure to it, preferring to see irrational flare-ups where others saw evidence of broader forces at work. At other times the security forces implicitly condoned right-wing activity. Earlier this year, it was revealed that Hans-Georg Maaen, head of the Constitutional Protection Service (BfV), had met years ago with politicians from the AfD to suggest ways of keeping the party off his own Services radar. And after neo-Nazis and members of the AfD marauded through the town of Chemnitz earlier this year, chasing people they took to be immigrants, Maaen gave interviews calling reports about these events fake newsbased not on his own agencys investigative work, it turned out, but on videos and memes circulating in far-right circles. Maaen was finally fired in early November.Only thanks to the efforts of the co-plaintiffs attorneys, acting for the victims, do the police, the BKA, and the BfV remain a presence in these transcripts. Which is crucial, as the police cut a disturbingly large figure in the NSU story. For example, the police let the trio slip away during the initial search of their garage in 1998, which was itself rented from a policeman. After the crimes were discovered in 2011 the BfV immediately began collecting and shredding files pertaining to right-wing infiltration. And in all those years police allegedly saw nothing, or saw only immigrant-on-immigrant violence.Before the NSU published their video, their assassinations were known as the Dner-killings, after the type of kebab immensely popular in Germany. Investigators seemed determined to seek the origins of these shocking crimes amongst the immigrant communities they terrorized. One of the task forces on the case, for example, was code-named Bosporus. When a witness identified as Beate K. went to the police after one of the crimes, she was shown mostly pictures of Turkish men as potential suspects. She was also asked to opine whether the Turkish mafia might be behind it: weapons smuggling, money laundering. In the case of the murdered policewoman Michle Kiesewetter, the NSUs final victim, authorities came to focus on a Roma family that had been somewhere in the vicinity of the crime scene, obsessively tracking their travels across Europe.The trial transcripts show that this compulsion was shared by an entire societythat the same prejudices that governed the investigators were at work in most non-immigrant witnesses. When Mundlos and Bhnhardt murdered Sleyman Taskpr, a witness claimed she had heard two men arguing beforehand in a foreign language. When another witness crossed paths with Mundlos and Bhnhardt immediately after the murder of smail Yaar in Nuremberg, she initially described them as southern types, i.e. ethnically non-German. The press operated with much the same biases: The left-leaning weekly Der Spiegel fantasized in 2011 that the killings were clearly the work of Turkish ulta-nationaliststhe shot in the face a sign  for a loss of honor, the murders an indication that Turks lived in a dark parallel society within Germany. The NSU transcripts tell of a state and a society that couldnt have seen what the NSU was doing, even if they had bothered to try. Their blinkers were so powerful that the authorities often turned their suspicions on the victims. With regard to almost all of the nine victims who were either immigrants or of immigrant descentand, tellingly, not in the case of the dead policewomanthe police got it into their heads that the familys stupefied trauma was actually a cartel of silence that they would have to break. In one case, they told a widow that her slain husband had been having an affair with a German woman and had two children by her. In another, they staked out a victims widows home. They questioned the families about organized crime, about drugs, about the outlawed Kurdish party PKK.Who has a right to be silent and whose silence is criminalized? The states position in this question is all too clear throughout the trial. One is struck by the persistent silence that greets the phalanx of prosecutors and victims attorneys in these transcripts. When Zschpe finally speaks, it is, as one family member of a victim put it, almost like she was mocking us: She denies everything, gets bogged down in pointless details, and offers hollow apologies and disavowals of her former beliefs. Indeed, her team argues that she is a victim herself. Again and again, the defense attorneys worry that their clients are being tried in the media and prejudged. All the wrongs that had been visited on the victims families for ten years, they sought to reclaim, implausibly, for their clients.It is a sound legal strategy, of course, part of a zealous defense. But, as the editors point out, what happened in the courtroom could not but resonate outside of it. It is telling that discounting the victimization of others while angrily claiming victimhood for yourself has been a central strategy of the AfD during its rise. The party has shown a Trumpian knack for casting people hurling bricks at housing for refugees as concerned citizens, and terrified refugees as dangerous predators. Whether they want to close the borders, set fire to kebab shops, or beat up refugees, an increasing number of Germans are ready, even eager, to withhold empathy from the persecuted and present themselves as the real victims.In her closing arguments, prosecutor Greger claimed that Zschpe, Mundlos, and Bhnhardt hated the police and the state they represented. The NSUs campaign was aimed at delegitimizing the German state, an accusation corroborated by the massive lists found in their various hideouts contain the addresses of members of the Bundestag and centrist political organizations.But if the German mainstream was a theoretical target of the NSU, it wasnt a target the NSU ever actually attacked. With the one, still mysterious exception of the attack on two members of the police in Heilbronn in southern Germany, which resulted in the death of Kiesewetter, the NSU killed immigrants. It killed in kebab shops and bodegas, in internet cafes and flower stands. In 15 bank robberies not a single person was killed, though several were shot. The bank robberies almost all took place in the former communist East, in areas that have few immigrant communities. In contrast, all but one of the NSUs killings took place in former West Germany, and all of them occurred in large, diverse communities. Whatever the NSU took itself to be attacking, it was far more specific than the German state writ large. Did members of the NSU act alone? In the NSUs lists of potential targets, victims attorney Mehmet Daimagler points out, there is a Turkish-German prosecutor in the small Westphalian town of Siegen. Daimagler grew up in Siegen, he practiced law thereyet he had never heard of this man. How had the NSU? As Elif Kubak, whose husband was murdered in his kiosk in Dortmund in 2006, remarked: Did they have helpers in Dortmund? Do I still see them around town sometime?The slogan that rightwing protesters chant as they march through the cities, especially in East Germany, is we are the people. Whether or not the NSUs enormous lists are evidence of an extensive network of helpers, informers, and fellow travelers, or whether they were meant merely to create that appearance, almost doesnt matter. They are meant to raise Elif Kubaks question, and they are meant to make people like her look over their shoulder in their own country. Even if we believe that they carried out their actions unbeknownst to anyone around them, the NSU did not really act alone. They could count on societys biases and prejudices, on a rising politics of resentment, to sustain them at least for a time. Some of the more moving moments in these trial transcripts consist of the otherwise fairly neutral panel of judges going above and beyond what is necessary for purely evidentiary reasons to ask the victims families about their lives since the attacks. It is as though they wanted to acknowledge that while the violence done to these families cannot be undone, the persistent abstracting away of their suffering can at least be reversed. Towards the end of the trial Dilek zcan, daughter of smail Yaar, addressed Carsten Schultze, the only defendant who showed remorse: They told me that you, among all the defendants, were the only one who didnt look away when they put pictures of the dead up on the screen, and that your eyes were wide with horror. Someone finally seeing what they have allowed to happen is the best these families could hope for in this trial. In the end, Schultzes evident agony didnt help him much. While Zschpe got the maximum allowed by German law (15 years without the possibility of parole), Schultze was the only one of the four other defendants who got exactly what prosecutors had asked for. Andr Eminger was sentenced to time served and was released hours later to the hooting of his supporters. Less than a week later Ralf Wohlleben left prison. Their strategy of keeping mum, and of presenting themselves as victims, had worked. As of November, only Zschpe and Schulze remain in prison. As Annette Ramelsberger, one of the editors of this staggering document, put it on the day the NSU trial ended: Contrition isnt worth it, it turns out. Silence is. The far right will learn that lesson all too well.	Liberal
Its been five years since Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, published her manifesto, Lean In, urging women not to sell themselves short at work or doubt their ability to balance a family with a career. Though controversial, the book was a mega-bestseller, selling more than four million copies. It spawned a mini empire, with 40,000 mentoring circles and annual campaigns, and turned Sandberg into a celebrity executive: the face of a new brand of professional feminism.Lean In was published when Sandberg was 43, and capped her impressive rise in the professional world. She began her career working closely with her mentor, Larry Summers, who taught her at Harvard. She worked with him at the World Bank and, later, at the Treasury Department. From there she went to Google, where she led the companys online advertising efforts. In 2007, Sandberg met Mark Zuckerberg at a Christmas party, and he convinced her to jump ship.The Facebook founder tasked Sandberg with a daunting goal: Make the company profitable. It took her just two years to do so. In 2017, Facebook made in $40 billion in advertising revenue, and today the companys market capitalization is $400 billion. Sandberg also brought a corporate professionalism to the company. If Zuckerberg was the baby-faced tech visionary, Sandberg was lead adult in the room, taking care of Facebooks economic and political needs. She has been so successful that she was rumored to be the frontrunner to lead the Treasury Department if Hillary Clinton had become president.That sterling reputation took a serious blow this week. A report from The New York Times shows that, while Sandberg was building her global brand, she was using aggressive and underhanded tactics at Facebook. As the company faced increasing criticism and pressure over its handling of fake news, election interference, data abuse, and the incitement of ethnic violence and genocide, she embraced a strategy to suppress information about Facebooks problems, discredit its critics, and deflect blame onto its competitors. She berated her security chief for being honest about the extent of the Russian campaign on the site. And she employed multiple crisis PR firms that spread fake news as a defense tactic, in one instance tying critics to the liberal billionaire, George Soros, a frequent subject of anti-semitic abuse online.Sandberg leaned in, and then started throwing sucker-punchesa revelation that undermines the myth she spent years building about herself.Before Sandbergs arrival at Facebook, Zuckerberg was almost single-mindedly focused on the user experience. There remained a profound corporate ambivalence toward advertising as the means for Facebook to become a real business, David Kirkpatrick wrote in The Facebook Effect. But under Sandberg, targeted advertising became the companys central focus and source of revenue. From the moment she arrived, Sandberg was the companys top advertising champion and salesperson, he wrote. She had immense experience with advertisers from Google and a deep appreciation of the importance and potential of ads on the Net. According to some at Facebook, in her first weeks there was hardly anyone else at the company about whom the same could be said. Facebook became profitable for the first time in 2010, and as it grew into one of the most powerful and profitable tech companies in the world, Sandberg received much of the credit.Having turned Facebook into a money-making enterprise, Sandberg took over the reins from Zuckerberg, who increasingly spent time on extracurricular activities like last years listening tour across America. The Times portrayal of her leadership in his absence is damning. Its report opens with her seething over the fact that the companys chief security officer, Alex Stamos, told its board that it had yet to deal with all of the Russian activity on its platform. You threw us under the bus! she reportedly yelled at him. (Stamos has since left the company.)Sandberg played a central role in nearly every misdeed at Facebook thats described in the Times piece. Singularly focused on the companys stock price and its advertising-based business model, she worked to minimize data abuse and election interference. She employed a Republican-leaning crisis PR firm to attack the companys critics, and opted to do little to address the companys rampant fake news problem, fearing that it would anger conservative users.Sandberg also hired lobbyists to pester Democratic senators who dared criticize the company and its business model, and to push terrible pieces of legislation like the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, which has endangered the safety of sex workers, in an attempt to woo skeptical Republicans. She worked to minimize regulation that could have helped the company fight bad actors, but would damage its business model. While Facebook had publicly declared itself ready for new federal regulations, Ms. Sandberg privately contended that the social network was already adopting the best reforms and policies available, the Times reported. Heavy-handed regulation, she warned, would only disadvantage smaller competitors.This was, to an extent, what Sandberg was hired to do: grow the business, protect the bottom line, and avoid onerous regulation. Using dirty tactics to accomplish these goals is a widely accepted practice in corporate America. But Zuckerberg and Sandberg have repeatedly insisted that they were new kinds of executives leading a new kind of company. When Facebook hit a snag in the past, they beseeched their usersa significant percentage of the publicto trust them.Its unclear if Sandberg thought that she would get away with, for instance, smearing critics by associating them with Soros. Zuckerberg told reporters on Thursday that he and Sandberg were not aware of the actions being taken by the PR firms employed by Facebook. Sandberg released a statement on Facebook on Thursday in which she also denied that she attempted to block investigations into Russian interference. On a number of issuesincluding spotting and understanding the Russian interference we saw in the 2016 electionMark and I have said many times we were too slow, she wrote. But to suggest that we werent interested in knowing the truth, or we wanted to hide what we knew, or that we tried to prevent investigations, is simply untrue. The allegations saying I personally stood in the way are also just plain wrong. This was an investigation of a foreign actor trying to interfere in our election. Nothing could be more important to me or to Facebook. But what did Sandberg expect when she hired a Republican opposition-research firm? It was a short-sighted response that will have long-term consequences, for both Facebook and Sandberg. In her Facebook post, Sandberg denied any knowledge of the company or its work. I did not know we hired them or about the work they were doing, but I should have, she wrote. I have great respect for George Sorosand the anti-Semitic conspiracy theories against him are abhorrent. But the damage is done. Now we know Facebook will do whatever it takes to make money, Rishad Tobaccowala, chief growth officer for the Publicis Groupe, told The New York Times. They have absolutely no morals.Sandberg and Facebook could have opted for a different strategy, one that embraced transparency while the company explored business models that would leave it less vulnerable to misinformation campaigns, fake news, conspiracy theories, and political division in general. But she opted for a shadowy, bare-knuckled fight to protect the companys lucrative advertising business. In the process, she made it clear that she was just another cutthroat executive leading just another cutthroat company.	Liberal
What was your signature like at eighteen? Is it still the same? In the wake of the 2018 midterms, the American electoral system is under scrutiny againas, in fact, it seems to be almost every two years now. This year, razor-thin margins in Florida and Georgia are drawing fresh attention to allegations of voter suppression and incidents of electoral mismanagement. And now, the recount in Florida has given absentee voters until Saturday to make sure that ballots originally thrown away are counted.Florida, Georgia, and Rhode Island are three out of several states still requiring a signature match for absentee voters. In practice, what that means is letting election officials check the signature somewhere on the absentee ballot against the signature on an application or a form of government ID. Over the past year, judges in California and New Hampshire have struck down the requirements, declaring they unconstitutionally deprived voters of their right to cast a ballot and have it counted. The process implementation in other states is also raising alarms. Among other problems, the policy places a disproportionate burden on voters with disabilities, elderly voters, and others. Its also strikingly unnecessary and unscientific.Its reasonable to try to make sure that the person who casts an absentee ballot is the same person who applied for it. One doesnt need to be a handwriting expert, though, to see why signature-match laws could be problematic. A persons signature often changes throughout their life, and in hasty circumstances a well-crafted one can be abandoned in lieu of a scrawled scribble. When it comes to electronic signature pads, all bets are offas anyone whos ever seen their own baffling jottings on one of those devices well knows. Nonetheless, Florida election officials use signatures taken from those pads while at the state department of motor vehicles as the basis for comparison to a print signature on Election Day.Their determinations could have an impact on two major races. Florida Governor Rick Scott is ahead by a narrow margin in his battle to unseat Senator Bill Nelson, with just over 12,000 votes separating the candidates. State officials are conducting a manual recount in the Senate race, giving voters until Saturday to fix their mismatched signaturesa hurdle they shouldnt have to cross in the first place.Its not immediately clear how nationally widespread the problem is. Americas balkanized election system has some benefits. The lack of any centralized structures makes it somewhat resistant to large-scale rigging, for example. But there are also drawbacks. Its not immediately apparent how many states use signature-matching laws. There can also be significant differences in how the laws are implemented from state to state. What seems clearer is that the requirements run the risk of tossing out valid, legitimately cast votes.In New Hampshire, for example, absentee ballots are scrutinized by a local official known as a moderator, who is elected for a two-year term and operates independently from the secretary of states officethe office in New Hampshire (and most states) that oversees elections. On Election Day, the moderator publicly (i.e. in front of witnesses and reporters) checks the signature on the absentee ballot envelopewhich in New Hampshire is a piece of paper doubling as an affidavit, with the actual ballot and vote inside. If he or she thinks it doesnt match the one on the application form for the absentee ballot, the envelope is left unopened and the ballot isnt counted. Their decision effectively nullifies that persons vote.The American Civil Liberties Union challenged the states law in 2017 on behalf of three New Hampshire voters who were disenfranchised during the 2016 election. One of them, Mary Saucedo, was 94 years old at the time. Advanced macular degeneration has left Saucedo legally blind, and she told the court that she filled out her ballot with the assistance of her 86-year-old husband. He filled out the absentee ballot request form on her behalf, and when her signature on the envelope didnt match the one on the form, it was rejected on Election Day.There is no procedure by which a voter can contest a moderators decision that two signatures do not match, nor are there any additional layers of review of that decision, Judge Landya McCafferty wrote in her August ruling blocking the law. In other words, the moderators decision is final. Moreover, no formal notice of rejection is sent to the voter after Election Day. New Hampshire voters whose absentee ballots are rejected can only find out by checking the secretary of states website after voting has already concluded. The site removes the information after three months.A California state court blocked a similar law earlier this year with relative ease. State officials tried to contend that the provision had only prevented roughly 45,000 voters from casting a ballot, a group larger than the number of seats in San Franciscos Pac Bell Park. But the judge concluded that it still violates the Constitutions due-process requirements because it did not give those affected a chance to respond.The statute fails to provide for notice that a voter is being disenfranchised and/or an opportunity for the voter to be heard, Judge Richard Ulmer wrote in his ruling. These are fundamental rights. The parties consume considerable ink disputing what test to use in determining unconstitutionality, but [the provision] does not pass any test cited.In Georgia, the epicenter of voting-related controversies this election cycle, a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order in October that barred state officials from tossing out ballots with signature mismatches. Instead, they became categorized as provisional ballots. The court ordered that voters be given notice that their ballot was being questioned as well as an opportunity to quickly remedy the problem in person after Election Day. A Washington Post analysis published on Friday found that the bulk of the statewide rejections are coming from a single Georgia county, which may suggest that state laws are being enforced unevenly.Florida may be the most dramatic example of all. Tens of thousands of ballots in the state are in bureaucratic purgatory at the moment thanks to the states signature-match requirements. The impact is particularly acute in Florida because its elections are often decided by extremely close margins. Though the states 2018 results arent yet finalized, fewer than a hundred thousand votes have separated the first- and second-place candidates in both the Florida governors race and the U.S. Senate seat race in recent days.This problem isnt new for the state, either. According to Mother Jones, Florida officials rejected 24,000 ballots in 2012 and 28,000 ballots in 2016 for purportedly mismatched signatures. (Since the state is still undergoing a manual recount, its unclear how many ballots will ultimately be rejected this cycle.) The state offers voters the opportunity to cure the problem by showing up in person at state election offices to correct any errors, but the magazine reported that younger and minority voters were less likely to follow through on those offers.Signature-match laws fall within a broader spectrum of measures that can deprive voters, based on small errors, of their electoral influence. Under Secretary of State Brian Kemp, Georgia tried to freeze voter-registration applications if they did not precisely match state databases, even if the difference was a mere comma or hyphen. A state judge also ordered Georgia earlier this week to not certify its election results until it counts ballots that had been excluded because the voter did not list his or her date of birth. Stringent measures like these are often justified by supporters as being necessary to thwart voter fraud, which is virtually nonexistent. Their practical impact appears to be disproportionately excluding lower-income voters or those from disadvantaged communities, who may lack the resources to contest their disenfranchisement.Most of the discussion surrounding the integrity of the voting process this year focused on figures like Kemp and Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobachboth of whom have been accused of voter suppressionor on sweeping measures like voting-roll purges or voter ID laws. But voter rights arent always denied by heavy-handed tactics or blatantly discriminatory laws. Sometimes the most insidious threat to the franchise comes from a thousand bureaucratic cuts.	Liberal
To stop kids from smoking, Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Scott Gottlieb wants to stop nicotine from tasting like candy. So he proposed two new restrictions on cigarette and e-cigarette products on Thursday.One proposal, which has dominated the media coverage, would make flavored e-cigarettesalso known as vape pens, or vapesmuch harder to access. Gas stations and convenience stores would only be allowed to sell tobacco- or menthol-flavored vapes, since those are often used by cigarette smokers who are trying to quit. Vape flavors like cotton candy and raspberry would be relegated to age-restricted, in-person locations such as liquor stores and specialty tobacco shops. Online sales would be more closely monitored. The announcement is already having an impact: Juul, the market leader in e-cigarettes, announced that it will stop selling most of its flavored products in stores. Gottliebs other proposal has drawn less attention, but is more controversial: an outright ban on menthol cigarettes. I believe these menthol-flavored products represent one of the most common and pernicious routes by which kids initiate on combustible cigarettes, he said in his statement.Young people have been shown to be more likely to try a menthol cigarette over a regular one, since the minty flavor masks tobaccos harsh taste. But young Americans arent the predominant smokers of menthol cigarettes. Black Americans are. According to Truth Initiative, a non-profit tobacco control group, nearly 85 percent of black smokers prefer menthol cigarettes, compared with only about 29 percent of white smokers. So Gottleibs announcement caused some on Twitter to wonder: Is the proposed ban racist?The question is not a new one. It came up frequently in 2010, when the FDA was considering a similar ban. Though it eventually failed, that proposal caused a rift among forces that advocate on behalf of blacks interests, NPR contributor Deron Snyder wrote at the time. Groups like the NAACP and the African Tobacco Control Leadership council were supportive, saying it would reduce rampant health problems in the black community. Groups like the National Black Chamber of Commerce, however, saw the ban as a racially targeted infringement on black smokers freedom of choice. Menthol simply is a taste preference preferred by African Americans and it should not be singled out for a ban, the groups co-founder Harry Alford said in 2011. Snyder agreed. Why would the government ban the cigarettes that I prefer, while the estimated 78 percent of non-Latino, white smokers who prefer non-mentholated cigarettes are allowed to keep on puffing? he wrote, adding that a cigarette ban should not be applied unless all cigarettes were banned. Reason magazine made a similar argument in 2017, as several cities passed ordinances banning the sale of menthol products. It is true that black smokers use menthol cigarettes at a greater rate than the average American smoker, Christian Britschgi wrote. But does that mean the proper anti-racist response is to crack down on menthol? Indeed, is it not perhaps a tiny bit discriminatory to prohibit a product primarily because of the race of the people buying it?Proponents, however, argued that banning menthol cigarettes is actually an anti-racist policya way to combat the tobacco industrys racist marketing strategies. Cigarette companies know that most African-American smokers prefer menthol cigarettes and they exploit this preference in their marketing efforts to African Americans, in general, and to African-American kids, in particular, the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids wrote in a memo that compiled research on the subject.Its true: Menthol cigarettes are disproportionately advertised in predominately black communities, and the ads in those communities are disproportionately directed at young people. A 2010 study by the Harvard School of Public Health comparing tobacco marketing in two racially disparate neighborhoods found that the predominantly black one had more tobacco retailers, and advertisements were more likely to be larger, promote menthol products, have a lower mean advertised price, and occur within 1000 feet of a school than the predominantly white one.That strategy has had profound consequences for the health of black communities. Smoking-related illness is the largest cause of preventable death among African Americansmore than homicides or even car accidents. According to the CDC, Although African Americans usually smoke fewer cigarettes and start smoking cigarettes at an older age, they are more likely to die from smoking-related diseases than Whites. Its not clear why that is, but the CDC notes that black smokers are less successful at quitting cigarettes than other ethnic groups. Menthol cigarettes also have been shown to be harder to quit than regular ones.Further complicating the debate, tobacco companies have given millions of dollars to black organizations and politicians. The National African American Tobacco Prevention Network referred to it in 2015 as the industrys informal mutual aid pact with some black organizations, including the NAACP and the United Negro College Fund. In return for donations, some of the groups have helped the industry fight anti-smoking measures. Other times, critics say, they have simply turned a blind eye to the harmful impact of tobacco on the black community. A Mother Jones investigation from 2015 found that half of all black members of Congress received financial support from [tobacco company] Lorillard, as opposed to just one in 38 nonblack Democrats. To put it another way, black lawmakersall but one of whom are Democratswere 19 times as likely as nonblack Democrats to get a donation.With a menthol ban in the offing again, these relationships are sure to see renewed scrutiny. But Gottlieb has made clear where he stands. I believe that menthol products disproportionately and adversely affect underserved communities, he said in his Thursday statement. And as a matter of public health, they exacerbate troubling disparities in health related to race and socioeconomic status that are a major concern of mine. 	Liberal
When Amazon announced on Tuesday that it would build one of its new headquarters in Long Island Citys Anable Basin, environmentalists were quick to notice that the site could be partially underwater by 2050. By the next century, it will be completely submerged, according to the environmental research group Climate Centrals most recent projections. Situated in an inlet along the East River, the site is currently home to parking lots and warehouse spaces, but when Amazon breaks ground, which could be as soon as 2019, new apartment complexes and office buildings will go upall of which would be vulnerable to flooding if sea levels rise even just a few feet. After Hurricane Sandy battered the East Coast in 2012, New York City adopted new building codes to help minimize the damage of such flooding. Today, developers working in flood zones are required to elevate their buildings above the anticipated water level in a storm. An additional set of guidelines for waterfront developers recommends that they build floodgates and levees, create wetlands and barrier islands, and elevate surrounding land to address flooding and erosion. But these recommendations are nonbindingits up to developers to decide whether or not they want to put up the money to build such green infrastructure.  For Amazon, this means that any attempts to shore up its Long Island City site will have to be entirely on its own steam. Before deciding to split its new headquarters between New York City and Northern Virginia, the company considered several HQ2 locations vulnerable to flooding, including Miami, Newark, and Boston, without making any public statements about how it would adapt to rising tides. Then, on Tuesday, the company agreedin lieu of property taxesto offer New York City a series of payments, earmarked for infrastructure improvement (streets, sidewalks, utilities, transportation, schools, and the like). Among the priorities listed on its Memorandum of Understanding with the city was environmental remediation, the closest Amazon has come to displaying an interest in the environment. As yet, the company has not released any details on what types of projects might be included in this category. If history is any guide, however, Amazon will protect itself without thinking of the surrounding neighborhood. Too often, said Amy Chester, the managing director of the collaborative research and design group Rebuild by Design, developers only build barriers to climate change around their own sites, ignoring neighboring areas that are at risk. What you end up having is islands of protection, she said. Meanwhile, nearby houses and businesses are often left even more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. If a developer is protecting its own site, where is that water that its displacing going to go? said Linda Shi, an assistant professor at Cornells School of Architecture, Art, and Planning who studies urban environmental governance. Its going to go to the many places that dont have elevated buildings and flood walls. Over the last ten years, South Boston, for example, has witnessed an explosion of development in its Seaport District (including a brand new Amazon office expected to house 2,000 workers), an area that is projected to be underwater within the next century. Developers there have responded to the threat by fortifying their towering office buildings and hotels with inflatable or storable floodwalls. Then, last March, when a Noreaster inundated Boston with the third highest storm surge on record, streets throughout the Seaport and in nearby South Boston filled with water. That hasnt stopped developers elsewhere from leaning on floodwalls for protection, though. In Florida, about 64,000 homes will experience repeated flooding just from high tides within 30 years. There, too, owners are erecting portable walls to keep water off their properties. In Queenss furthest southern reaches, just twenty miles from Amazons Long Island City site, luxury real estate developerssuch as JDS, whose Saltmeadow project broke ground in 2015, just three years after Sandyare building their electrical utilities and apartments above ground level, which is enough to meet the New York City guidelines passed after Sandy, but not enough to offer any protection to its neighbors further inland.Just go around the harbor, said Roland Lewis, president and CEO of the Waterfront Alliance. Red Hook is as vulnerable as it was when it was devastated by Sandy, the Rockaways are a little bit better but not much.While its still unclear whatif anythingAmazon plans to do to shore up its new site, what is clear is that simply building floodwalls, or agreeing to build above ground, is insufficient. A better adaption model exists just a little further down the East River, however. In Hunters Point South, the city has planted more than an acre of wetlands modeled on the ones that existed there 200 years ago, before the New York Daily News, along with some sugar and railroad companies, set up shop on the site. The native flora is designed to absorb and gently release storm water back into the river. Further south, in Williamsburg, at the site of an old Domino Sugar refinery, a private real estate development firm, Two Trees, also recently invested $50 million into a public park elevated above the floodplain.There are similar plans in the works in Long Island City; the developer of a site just to the north of Anable Basin, TF Cornerstone, which was recently brought on as a partner on the Amazon project, has proposed rezoning the site to include a park, built in the floodplain, which would protect against shoreline erosion using tools such as bioswales to retain runoff water. Of course, its still unclear whether the park will actually be built now that Amazon is moving its HQ2 there, and even if it is, such an investment would put only a small dent in the massive unfilled need for coastal protection.In this, the fight over Amazons new site has lessons for the developers and urban planners working in places vulnerable to climate change. Waterfront development is surging across the country, particularly in dense cities like New York where outmoded industrial waterfronts offer some of the only large spaces for new development. Meanwhile, according to Robert Freudenberg of the Regional Plan Association, which does independent research and advocacy on urban planning issues in the Tri-state area, Private capital flows into new development and new parks, and meanwhile existing neighborhoods stay at lower levels of adaptation and innovation.  Its often said that climate change and environmental risk disproportionately impact poorer people and minorities. Low-income and minority families are more likely to live closer to dangerous industrial facilities, leading to a range of health complications. (Black children are, for example, twice as likely to have asthma as white children and ten times more likely to die of complications from asthma.) They are also more likely to live in flood-prone areas with deficient infrastructure. But the role private companies play often goes unnoticed: Because funds for resilience at the city, state, and federal levels are limited, developers are left to dictate which parts of the city will be protected from environmental harm and how. Amazon is currently in this position, and unless it takes its responsibly seriously, it is only going to be part of a much larger problem.  We tend to think about private sector adaptation primarily at the scale of individual properties, Shi said. But if youre thinking about the longer term future, the threat is at such a magnitude of scale, it really is a collective action problem. 	Liberal
The Federalist Society is convening in Washington on Thursday for its annual convention, a Comic-Con of sorts for the conservative legal movement. Its been a blockbuster year for those in attendance. The confirmation of Justice Brett Kavanaugh last month cemented a reliable conservative majority on the Supreme Court for at least a generation. Judicial nominees for the lower courts are sailing through the Republican-led Senate at a breakneck pace. Those victories made George Conways announcement on Wednesday all the more striking.Conway, a prominent Washington lawyer with deep conservative ties, announced the formation of Checks and Balances, which describes itself as a group of attorneys who would traditionally be considered conservative or libertarian. This is a bit of an understatement: The groups 14 founding members are a medley of high-profile academics, litigators, and former government officials, including a former Cabinet secretary. Its brief mission statement is a straightforward summary of the basic tenets of small-r republicanism. Though President Donald Trump is not mentioned by name, he is unmistakably the target.We believe in the rule of law, the power of truth, the independence of the criminal justice system, the imperative of individual rights, and the necessity of civil discourse, the statement says. We believe these principles apply regardless of the party or persons in power. We believe in a government of laws, not of men. It closes with a rallying cry: We seek to provide a voice and a network for like-minded attorneys to discuss these ideas, and we hope that they will join with us to stand up for these principles.Theres always been an inherent contradiction in the conservative legal movements relationship with Trump. On one hand, the president has delivered them an unparalleled string of victories and decisively shifted the federal judiciary to the right. At the same time, the president has weakened the American rule of law, campaigned to turn the Justice Department into a political weapon, and used his office to threaten journalists and political opponents. Its been an open question whenor even ifthe movement would reach a breaking point with him. That day may now come sooner rather than later.Some of us have been raising these concerns for a while, Jonathan Adler, a Case Western University law professor who signed the mission statement, told me. Ive been open about criticizing the administration where I thought that was necessary from the beginning, and being positive where there are things to be positive about. But I think some people have needed a few straws on the camels back before theyre willing to be more open about it.Conway, as the husband of White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, may be the most recognizable name to the general public. But the rest of its members are all prominent figures in conservative legal circles and veterans of past Republican administrations. Tom Ridge served as the first secretary of Homeland Security. Peter Keisler was tapped to replace Chief Justice John Roberts on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals in 2005, only to be rejected by Democratic senators for his conservative background. Orin Kerr, a University of Southern California law professor, is the Supreme Courts go-to scholar on Fourth Amendment matters.The question is whether other Federalist Society members, who have been hesitant to speak out, will answer the groups call. Theres reason to believe soprecisely because they have been gotten what they wanted under Trump. As his first termand perhaps his presidencywinds down, Trump may become a victim of his own success, as diminishing returns in judicial policy make it harder for the conservative legal community to stomach him.The Checks and Balances group sprang from informal conversations between him and the other members over the past year, according to Adler, who helped craft the legal argument behind the Affordable Care Act challenge in King v. Burwell. Over the last several weeks, he said, those discussions turned toward forming an organization and making some kind of public declaration. The goal was to provide a space for other like-minded conservative and libertarian legal figures to express concerns about the Trump administration and its threats to the nations constitutional order.Other conservative legal figures have been outspoken about Trump in recent weeks. Ted Olson, a former solicitor general and the victor of Bush v. Gore, signed on to represent CNN in its First Amendment lawsuit against the White House for revoking correspondent Jim Acostas press credentials. John Yoo, who took a maximalist approach to executive power under President George W. Bush, wrote in The Atlantic that Trump violated the Constitution by naming Matthew Whitaker to be acting attorney general after his boss, Jeff Sessions, was forced to resign. (George Conway published a similar argument in the New York Times last week, co-written by Obama DOJ veteran Neal Katyal.) Adler and others criticized Trumps threat to end birthright citizenship by executive order on originalism grounds.With few exceptions, liberal members of the American legal community have warned since the beginning that Trump posed a threat to American democracy. Many nonpartisan law professors also joined criticism of the travel ban directed at Muslim-majority countries, the administrations separation of migrant families at the border, and other extreme policies. Legal critiques from the right, however, have been more sporadic until recently. Trump, as a presidential candidate, had struck a Faustian bargain of sorts with top figures in the conservative legal movement: In exchange for outsourcing judicial nominations to them, they would not oppose his takeover of the Republican Party.His rise to power came at a fateful time for the movement. Since the 1960s, legal conservatives have dreamed of building a Supreme Court that mirrored their ideological worldview. Justice Antonin Scalias sudden death in 2016 imperiled decades of work to reshape the federal judiciary in their own image. The possibility that President Hillary Clinton would name his replacement kept the fracturing Republican Party together even as Trump assumed control of it. On Election Night, the gambit paid off. Instead of witnessing the first five-justice liberal majority on the court since Earl Warren, Republicans have now installed justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh, securing the courts ideological makeup for decades. More than 80 federal judges have also been confirmed over the past two years, steadily reshaping the lower courts.Those accomplishments thrilled conservatives of all stripes. They also kept quiet many in the conservative legal community who had concerns about the Trump administrations other policies, Adler said. Last year at the Federalist Society conference, there were press reports about the But Gorsuch stress ball, he noted. And its significant that they were but Gorsuch, not and Gorsuch, right? And it was a stress ball. The reason I think it was so popular is because there are a lot of people in FedSoc who are happy about judicial nominations, and were hoping that the judicial nominations would outweigh other things.The American left tends to picture the Federalist Society as a monolithic institution, one that grows originalist judges from giant cloning vats in its basement. In reality, it functions more like a decentralized social network and debate club, one where reputation is the coin of the realm. Checks and Balances members are effectively using that currency to provide cover for others who may fear professional reprisals from a vindictive White House, and to preemptively defuse attempts to paint members as conservative apostates.Concerns that I endorsed about the birthright citizenship proposal are based on the original public meaning of the constitutional text, Adler noted, referring to Trumps threat not to guarantee citizenship to everyone born in the U.S. Criticism about the Justice Department not being sufficiently nonpartisan are based on traditional principles about what the role of the Justice Department is and what the role of law enforcement is.... Were not abandoning our prior ideological affinities. In many ways, were seeking to reinvigorate them and see that they are upheld in this more challenging environment.Its worth noting that liberals are no stranger to devils bargains themselves. Many Democrats brushed aside Bill Clintons sexual misconduct in the 1990s because of their support for his policies and desire to keep Republicans out of the White House. Today, the American left might be skeptical of making common cause with their ideological adversaries, and rightly so. Many of those adversaries stayed silent over the past two years as Trump relentlessly weakened American democracyand quietly applauded as he delivered one staunch conservative to the courts after another. But if, as 2020 nears, Trumps reelection chances are slim and no Supreme Court justices retire or dietwo very big ifs, admittedlythe number of conservative critics may well grow. I think there are quite a number of people that do have conflicts, and I think for a lot of people that conflicts grown over time, Adler said. I think there are also people who think the administrations ability to produce silver linings that outweigh the cloud is diminishing. If that means more people who are willing to criticize the administration when it does wrong, thatd be good.Perhaps some of these people will feel that the rule of law has become significantly more imperiled than it was in Trumps early years. Others may simply conclude that, after the decisive rightward shift of the Supreme Court and the transformation of the most important lower courts, it is time to burnish their reputations for the post-Trump era. Whatever their reasons, the left ought to welcome them to the resistance. Im reminded of a high-school math teacher who would penalize me on a test when I got a question correct but used the wrong method. Sometimes, how one gets to the right answer matters less than getting there at all.	Liberal
Rescue teams are still searching through burned rubble for bodies after a massive wildfire devastated Butte County, California, last week. About 100 people are still missing. But already the Camp Fire, which continues to burn, has gone down in history as the deadliest blaze ever recorded in the state, during one of the deadliest fire seasons in several decades.On Wednesday, Butte County officials said they had discovered the remains of six more people, bringing the overall death toll from the fire to 48. These are not the only wildfire fatalities in California of late. South of Butte County, the ongoing Woolsey Fire has so far been blamed for two deaths. One firefighter was killed in the Mendocino Complex fire in August, and two firefighters died battling Julys Ferguson Fire. That same month, three firefighters and five civilians died in the Carr Fire. In all, Californias 2018 wildfire season so far has taken 61 livesa staggering number compared to the last 10 years, according to data from Californias state firefighting agency.To understand how severe this problem has become, its useful to compare Californias fatal wildfires to other causes of death. A mass shooting in a bar in Thousand Oaks last week left 13 deadthe third mass shooting in the state this year, according to a Mother Jones database. But more people have died in wildfires than in mass shootings in California this year, continuing a trend that started in 2016. (Thousand Oaks was also hit by the Woolsey Fire.) For the first time in years, the number of people killed by wildfires in California is about the same as the number of people who got hit by a train and died, according to Bureau of Transportation data. If wildfire deaths in California continue at this rate, the number will soon be comparable to the number of people who die in the United States due to terrorism, the Global Terrorism Database indicates. (That database doesnt include numbers from 2018, but a list put together by physicist Robert Johnson puts this years number about the same as Californias wildfire deaths.)Civilian deaths from wildfires are supposed to be relatively rare because they burn, primarily, on wildland. But wildfires are increasingly jumping from nature into populated areas. This is what happened with the Camp Fire, and it explains the high death toll. The blaze moved so quickly that residents in Butte County barely had the chance to evacuate.Theres reason to worry that wildfire deaths will only increase as climate change worsens, causing more extreme blazes. All of the 30 largest wildfires in the state, by acreage, have occurred since 2000; ditto for nine of the states ten most-destructive blazes ever. But a rise in wildfire deaths wouldnt be attributable to climate change alone.As I reported last year, real estate developers keep buildingand government officials keep allowinghomes to be built in the Wildland-Urban Interface. Otherwise known as the WUI, these areas make up 9 percent of the contiguous United States and contain approximately 45 million homes, according to the U.S. Forest Service. The town of Paradise, California, which was largely wiped out by the Camp Fire, is in the WUI. Its tough to tell people not to rebuild after a tragedy, especially those who were insured against their losses. And perhaps thats not the solution anyway. A Bloomberg article on Wednesday detailed a less-drastic idea for neighborhoods in the WUI: stricter building codes. Ray Rasker, the executive director of a wildfire risk consulting firm, told Bloomberg that many municipalities across California arent implementing such codes because of the high upfront cost to homeowners. Yeah, cost matters, he said. But the cost of not doing the right thing is tragedy.At the very least, the reality of Californias wildfire deaths should give pause to people looking to move to vulnerable areas. And there are a lot of people looking to do that. The Forest Service expects the number of homes within the WUI to rise another 40 percent by 2030. These homes wont be cheap to protect. As Fortune reported this week, [Insurance premiums] are on the rise for homeowners in areas at risk of wildfires, and some insurers are refusing to renew policies for people in danger areas. There may come a time when no company will insure homes in Californias most wildfire-prone areas, or the cost will be too high for all but its wealthiest residents. These financial disincentives may achieve what policymakers could not: convince humans to retreat to safer ground. But one would think that the ever-rising risk of burning to death is a compelling enough reason.	Liberal
Seven months ago, Mark Zuckerberg sat before Congress and said he was sorry about the fake news and the data breachesand that it wasnt really Facebooks fault. The companys founder and CEO had been hauled before Congress to answer for what became known as the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which a political consulting firm harvested Facebook data to sow electoral discord to help elect Donald Trump. Zuckerberg, appearing contrite before members of the House and Senate, insisted that Facebooks flaws stemmed from the companys commitment to free discourse and improving the world. Facebook is an idealistic and optimistic company, he said. For most of our existence, we focused on all the good that connecting people can bring. ... But its clear now that we didnt do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well.But a New York Times report published on Wednesday tells a different story. While Zuckerberg was sitting doe-eyed before Congress, insisting that Facebook only wants to connect people, his company was in fact imitating some of the worst behavior on Facebook to counter the barrage of negative stories the company was facing.Zuckerberg may have insisted that all of the criticism of Facebook was a byproduct of the companys core mission, but a crisis PR firm contracted by Facebook linked the sites critics to George Soros, the liberal Jewish billionaire who is often at the center of right-wing attacks and anti-Semitic conspiracy theories. At the same time, top executives, notably Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, were discouraging the company from investigating Russian activity on the site. This response exposes the hypocrisy at the center of the company: While Zuckerberg was promising to return to the companys utopian vision of bringing humanity closer together, it was doing everything it could to sow division, all in order to steer clear of negative coverage and eventual regulation.Facebook has been flooded with negative stories since 2016. First, there was its role in the presidential election, when Russian agents used the platform to spread narratives designed to increase support for Trump and hurt Hillary Clinton. Over the next two years, the ease with which Facebook could be gamed to spread false and divisive stories was demonstrated again and again. The social network became complicit in at least one genocide, in Myanmar, and has been shown again and again to benefit bad actors and dictatorsand to just make people unhappy in general. At the same time, the companys efforts to curb the flow of fake and biased news have been met with furious criticism from the right. Speaking to Congress, Zuckerberg repeatedly returned to the narrative that Facebook is a net good for humanity. It brings people together and helps them share their stories, he argued. It plays a central role in improving quality of life on an unprecedented, global scale. My top priority has always been our social mission of connecting people, building community and bringing the world closer together. Advertisers and developers will never take priority over that as long as Im running Facebook, he said, dismissing his companys main source of revenuetargeted advertisingas a negative externality.While Zuckerberg was traveling the country, posing with cows, apologizing for Facebooks missteps, and pushing the idea that the platform existed to pull people together rather than pull them apart, Facebook executives were engaged in a furious strategy to protect it:While Mr. Zuckerberg conducted a public apology tour in the last year, Ms. Sandberg has overseen an aggressive lobbying campaign to combat Facebooks critics, shift public anger toward rival companies and ward off damaging regulation. Facebook employed a Republican opposition-research firm to discredit activist protesters, in part by linking them to the liberal financier George Soros. It also tapped its business relationships, persuading a Jewish civil rights group to cast some criticism of the company as anti-Semitic.The Times piece reveals Facebook executives and lobbyists campaign of deflection. They pushed the intelligence community not to challenge the companys response to Russian interference and worked media organizations to push negative stories about the privacy failings of their competitors, such as Google and Apple. Executives berated employees for investigating Russian interference, with Sandberg telling them it exposed the company legally. Other executives warned that the extent of Russian interference would be bad for the company politically, because it would reinforce narratives about the 2016 election, while potentially alienating users who had been deceived by fake news. Zuckerberg and Sandberg ignored warning signs of data misuse and then sought to conceal them from view once they were revealed, according to the Times. Those who pushed the company to take action were warned that it would only result in political backlash from the right, with former Bush administration deputy chief of staff Joel Kaplan, Facebooks vice president of global public policy, telling employees that if Facebook implicated Russia further... Republicans would accuse the company of siding with Democrats. Any action, moreover, could alienate conservative users of the site. According to the Times, Kaplan said that if Facebook pulled down the Russians fake pages, regular Facebook users might also react with outrage at having been deceived: His own mother-in-law, Mr. Kaplan said, had followed a Facebook page created by Russian trolls.Kaplan has a point, to an extent. Republicans made a fuss after Facebook (and Twitter) made minor changes aimed at curbing misinformation. Republicans, including Trump, have suggested that conservatives are being shadow-banned from social media platforms, while others have suggested tech companies are working to suppress conservative viewpoints. There is no evidence that they are, but the narrative has taken hold. That doesnt excuse Facebooks actions. But it was out of fear of conservative backlash that Facebook avoided taking meaningful action to make its platform more secure and less toxic. The Times investigation is a damning portrait of a company in crisis and puts Zuckerbergs testimony before Congress in a harsher light. He repeatedly highlighted the work that the company was doing to combat data breaches, the spread of fake news, and electoral influence. In reality, he was paying a firm to push the exact kind of conspiracy theory that Facebook has been criticized of propagating. The depth of Zuckerbergs insincerity is all too clear: Hes only interested in doing the bare minimum, and his company has proven incapable of self-regulation. Congress was slow to realize as much back in April, but it no longer has any excuse for not bringing the full weight of the law against one of Americas most arrogant, unaccountable monopolies.	Liberal
In the months before the midterms, the GOP began sounding the alarm that the Democrats, should they take back the House, were planning a slew of investigations into nearly every aspect of the Trump administration: tax returns, family businesses, Russia, Stormy Daniels, excessive spending by cabinet secretaries, the travel ban, family separation, the failure to adequately respond to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Ricoand much, much more. In August, Republican leaders and donors began circulating a spreadsheet that listed each potential investigation, over a hundred in all. It was, as Jonathan Swan of Axios wrote, enough to churn Republican stomachsa secret study of the coming hell that would turn the Trump White House into a 24/7 legal defense operation. The document was packaged as merely informational, but its larger message was obvious. Democrats, it implied, were vindictive and out of control, driven less by truth than by revenge fantasies and conspiracy theories. There is a difference, though, between conspiracy theory and conspiracy. The latter is a crimedifficult to prove, but nonetheless real. American political history is laden with them; Watergate and Iran-Contra are only the most brazen of recent conspiracies. Conspiracy theories, meanwhile, string unconnected scandals together into an increasingly implausible master narrative orchestrated by a single puppet master. They connect dots that dont warrant connecting. In September, for example, during the height of the battle over the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, some liberals wondered on Twitter whether Kavanaughs unexplained debtsas much as $200,000held secrets related to the Russia investigation. Mueller should subpoena Kavanaugh to find out whether Trump arranged for one of Putins pals to bail Kavanaugh out of his baseball debt, offered one Twitter user, @zibilith. Two weeks later, Greg Olear, author of Dirty Rubles: An Introduction to Trump/Russia, tweeted about Kavanaughs owned-by-Putin behind. By this logic, a handful of unrelated crimes are transformed into a Grand Unified Theory of Political Malfeasance. Is this the new normal on the left? Its possible, but conspiracy theories are unlikely to take hold of the Democratic Party, especially a newly empowered House majority. Conspiracy theories are, generally speaking, a favored coping mechanism of those who lack power: They flourished among liberals in the wake of Trumps election. But as Democrats regain power, expect their need for conspiracy theories to decrease. Its far more likely that Democrats will simply start uncovering actual crimes: conspiracies and collusion, both big and small, coordinated and randomalong with a host of regular old acts of corruption and graft. Given the preponderance of evidence indicating such transgressions, there is little need for Democrats to promote conspiracy theories. They have more than enough legitimate work to keep their oversight committees busy until 2020 and beyond. The real question is whether they will let themselves be played by the Republican Party, which has descended almost entirely into paranoia. Conspiracy theories have been integral to American politics since nearly the countrys founding, from rumors of an Illuminati takeover in the election of 1800, through the various populist movements that relied on anti-Catholic and anti-Semitic sentiments. Major historical events, from Pearl Harbor to JFKs assassination, have always been fodder for conspiratorial accusations. But there is usually a method to the madness. During the Reagan years, for example, conspiracy theories flourished among disenfranchised African American communities that the KKK secretly owned Nike, Marlboro, and Coors, or that sterilizing agents had been put in Churchs Chicken to make black men impotent. Politically speaking, this has meant that conspiracy theories tend to breed inside whichever group is out of power: The idea that the government knew about the September 11 attacks in advance and allowed them to happen was popular on the left during the Bush years; birtherism flourished on the right under Obama. But take back control, and the need for conspiracy theories flags: Pollsters have found that support for the theory about September 11 was more than 50 percent among Democrats during the Bush administration. Once Obama was elected, that number was reduced by half. (Other conspiratorial beliefs, such as government cover-up of alien life, remained steady.) Over the last two years, however, this calculus has changed. Donald Trump controlled the White House, both branches of Congress, and the Supreme Court, yet he maintained his conspiratorial fervor and encouraged his supporters to follow suit. They, after all, have come to see themselves as perpetual victims, powerless no matter who is president. Of course, the rights continued reliance on conspiracy theories also stems from the Trump administrations sheer incompetence: Deep State conspiracy theories that undermine the Great Leader are an effective way to explain the ineptitude that has defined the executive branch. But it points to a deeper, partywide psychosis: The GOP has built a movement around blaming black and brown Americans, immigrants, and feminists for its constituents economic woes. Increasingly, it seems, the only way for the right to hold power is to pretend they lack it, a paradoxical state of affairs. They are now clinically paranoid: Unable to determine real threats from imagined ones, or to assess their own status accurately, conspiracy is all they have left. Perhaps unsurprisingly, their preferred targets are Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. Clinton still appears on Fox News six times more often than she does on CNNmost notably in October 2017, a full year after the election, when Sean Hannity indulged in fever dreams of a uranium conspiracy so specious that even the networks Shepard Smith had to debunk it. And unlike conspiracy theories about George W. Bush during the Obama years, Obama-related notions have not diminished since he left office; a YouGov poll taken in December 2017 found that 51 percent of registered Republicans still believed he probably or definitely was born in Kenya. Rather than snapping back to reality once they regained power, Republicans have gone further off the deep end. This leaves little room for Democrats to conduct their inquiries in good faith. Regardless of how rigorously theyre conducted, they will still be dismissed by the right as fishing expeditions. If the Democrats opt for Michael Avenattistyle pugilismor Eric Holder-ian kicks to the fallen Republicansthe GOP will still cry foul. But it doesnt matter. Theyve already shown their hand: Beset by conspiracy theories and riven with paranoia, Republicans will perhaps never again be fair and evenhanded governmental partners, and the Democrats have no obligation to treat them as such. Their only job should be to quarantine and minimize the harm the Republicans do, until theyre finally put away for good.	Liberal
Nancy Pelosi made herself more than clear. For over a year, the Democratic leader of the House of Representatives wanted nothing to do with the growing interest in impeaching President Donald Trump. Its not someplace that I think we should go, she said on CNN last November. At a press briefing in April, she said, I dont think we should be talking about impeachment. Ive been very clear right from the start. On the political side I think its a gift to the Republicans. The following month, she called impeachment divisive and a distraction. And in August she said, Its not a priority on the agenda going forward unless something else comes forward.But Pelosi recently sounded a slightly different note. Recognize one point, she told The Atlantics Edward-Isaac Dovere on Friday. What Mueller might not think is indictable could be impeachable. Meanwhile, Axios reported on Monday that Top Democrats, who had largely avoided the subject during the campaign, now tell us they plan to almost immediately begin exploring possible grounds for impeachment.There have been no major revelations of late that could explain this shift; the evidence of Trumps malfeasance was no less convincing a month or two ago than it is today. But something else has changed: The Democrats handily won back the House of Representatives in last weeks midterms, setting up Pelosis return as the chambers speaker. Could it be that she and other leading Democrats have been seriously considering impeachment all along?If so, one can hardly blame them, given the pressure they were under from the base and megadonors alikewhich has not abated. As President Trump continues to accelerate his lawlessness, the new Democratic House majority must initiate impeachment proceedings against him as soon as it takes office in January, Tom Steyer wrote in The New York Times last week. Six in ten Democrats agree with him, according to a Politico/Morning Consult poll released on Monday.But this would be a mistake, or at least premature. After last weeks blue wave, its clear that most everything is trending in Democrats favor. The party won handily on a message focused on health care. The Rust Belt states that Trump flipped in 2016 appear to be turning blue again, while demographic shifts elsewhere in America are turning some red states closer to purple. In Washington, meanwhile, Democrats will have two years to investigate every nook and cranny of the Trump administration. So why would they push their luck by impeaching the president, risking a backlash that could propel Trump to reelection?Throughout the midterm campaign, while most Democrats ran away from impeachment, Republicans saw political utility in talking about it. We recognize that if we lose the House, there are Democrats who have talked impeachment even though its a bogus, baseless theory with no grounding in truth, Republican National Committee spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said in July. We do think that losing the House puts that at risk, and puts that in play. Trump, in particular, was keen to play up the threat.Crazy Maxine Waters: After we impeach Trump, well go after Mike Pence. Well get him.  @FoxNews Where are the Democrats coming from? The best Economy in the history of our country would totally collapse if they ever took control!Impeachment was a way for Trump, despite not being on the ballot, to make the election all about himfor narcissisms sake, but also voter turnout. It may have worked, to a point: Republican turnout was particularly high in rural areas, helping the party to strengthen its grip on the Senate.And yet, Democrats won with a higher vote margin than Republicans did in either of their last two wave elections, in 1994 and 2010. They could end up winning 40 seats in the House, the most since Watergate. (Several races remain too close to call.) How did they get here? Not by talking about removing Trump from office, but by delivering a message about health care with the repetitive force of a jackhammer, as The New York Times put it. At a victory party on Tuesday evening, Pelosi pumped her fist in the air and exclaimed, Lets hear it for pre-existing conditions!Data led the way. While polling showed that impeachment was (and still is) unpopular with more than half of the country,  the Times reported that research on right-of-center suburban voters and blue-collar whites who supported Trump found that only a message about health care and jobs could win over both groups:In a presentation compiled for the PAC in the summer of 2017 by the Democratic polling firm Normington Petts, party strategists delivered an unambiguous assessment: The strongest policies for a Democratic candidate are almost entirely economically focused. And it warned that Mr. Trump was not the most important villain  congressional Republicans were.Pelosi and House Democrats appear to be sticking to this plan, for now. Theyre readying a massive slate of proposals that will focus on expanding voting rights, strengthening ethics laws, and limiting corporate money in politics. It is highly unlikely that any of these measures will pass a Republican Senate and be signed into law by Trump, but they are important nonetheless as a signal to American votersand especially the baseabout the partys priorities.Pelosi herself summed up the Democrats 2019 policy agenda the day after the election. Democrats pledge, again, a new majority, our For the People agenda, lower health care costs, lower prescription drugs, bigger paychecks, building infrastructure, clean up corruption to make America work for the American peoples interest, not the special interests, she said. Yesterdays election was not only a vote to protect Americas health care. It was a vote to restore the health of our democracy.At the same time, House Democrats will use their oversight power next year to draw attention to Trumps myriad scandals. One Democrat told Axios on Monday that House members were preparing to fire a subpoena cannon at the president. Representative Nita Lowey told Axios that the list of targets, which numbers more than 85, includes the Space Force, hurricane relief in Puerto Rico, White House security clearances, White House use of personal email and more. Adam Schiff, the incoming chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, has his eyes on an even bigger target: Were going to want to look at what leverage the Russians may have over the president of the United States.Its possible that these investigations will find offenses that warrant impeachment, or that, as Pelosi indicated to The Atlantic, the Mueller investigation will uncover Russia-related information so explosive that Democrats will grow more comfortable with the i-word. But right now, while there may be a persuasive constitutional argument for impeaching Trump, theres not a strong political case for doing so.Things are looking up for the Democrats, who are poised to grow their House majority in 2020. From infrastructure to health care (including Medicare for All), the partys policy agenda is broadly popular. They may not regain the Senate until 2022, due to yet another unfavorable map in 2020, but impeachment talk would only make that harder, as polling suggests it would turn off the rural voters they need to win back seats in states like Ohio. In the meantime, the odds are only growing that the economic recovery will sputter, feeding the growing backlash against Trump and Republicans. And the GOP under Trump seems intent on appealing only to white men, a demographic that shrinks by the year.The House can impeach Trump all it wants, but as things stand today, the Senate certainly would not find the president guilty. And recent American history warns of the consequences of pursuing a hopeless impeachment. If they want to impeach President Trump, Id give them some advice, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham told Fox News Bret Baier. Been there, done that with Clinton, didnt work out for us. I would think twice about it. It will blow up in their face.It is not often that one asks Democrats to heed the words of Lindsey Graham. But hes right.	Liberal
While pundits debate whether there was a blue wave in last weeks midterm electionsthere wasthe White House is bracing for an onslaught from the new Democratic majority in the House of Representatives. Democrats are preparing to subpoena the Trump administration on at least 85 different matters. The list of targets include trivial and weighty subjects alike, the latter including Trumps tax returns, the Russia investigation, the migrant family separation policy, the travel ban, and whether Trump is using the presidency to enrich his personal businesses.Two opposing forces will shape these investigations: Congresss power to oversee the executive branch, and the executive branchs power to keep certain documents from Congress. Though executive privilege is not mentioned in the Constitution, the courts consider its use by George Washington and Thomas Jefferson to be the next best thing. Presidents from both parties have, with varying degrees of success, invoked the separation of powers to keep the executive branchs internal deliberations hidden from the federal judiciary and from Congress.Trumps presidency has been characterized by impulsiveness and short-sightedness. When it comes to invoking executive privilege, however, the White House has been unusually strategic. The administration has opted not to invoke it at key moments, largely related to the Russia investigation, while selectively using it to protect documents related to Trumps businesses and the nomination of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. These episodes could be instructive in how Trump wields the privilege in the political standoffs to come.There are two notable instances where the White House avoided invoking the privilege. Last year, after Trump fired James Comey, the Senate Intelligence Committee invited the former FBI director to testify. Some political and legal observers speculated that the White House would use executive privilege to prevent him from doing so, but Trump instead took the path of least resistance, forestalling what would have been a bruisingand potentially fruitlesslegal battle.At around the same time, Trump hired lawyers John Dowd and Ty Cobb to lead his legal defense in the Russia investigation. The two men, in hopes of speeding up the inquiry, took a highly cooperative stance with special counsel Robert Mueller, including reportedly waiving executive privilege to provide him with numerous documents. Trumps lawyers also made no effort to stop Mueller from interviewing former White House Counsel Don McGahn or other top administration officials about Comeys dismissal.This strategy wasnt without its detractors. Former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie dismissed Cobb and Dowd as a C-level legal team for waiving the privilege so readily, which he said could harm Trumps future legal defenses. (Christie is now reportedly under consideration to succeed recently fired Attorney General Jeff Sessions.) Cobb and Dowd left the presidents legal team earlier this year, and the once-cooperative approach may have left with them: Vanity Fairs Gabriel Sherman reported in July that Emmet Flood, the presidents lead lawyer, is taking a more adversarial approach to the special counsels inquiries and invoking executive privilege more frequently.In one notable instanceSessionss congressional testimony about Comeys dismissalthe Trump administration took a murky and muddled approach. Rather than invoke executive privilege outright, Sessions avoided answering questions by telling lawmakers that it would be inappropriate to testify about his private conversations with the president, in case the White House wanted to invoke the privilege in the future. This rhetorical maneuver left lawmakers with few answers about what he witnessed during one of the Trump presidencys most pivotal moments.At other times, the White House has played hardball with investigators and invoked the privilege to stymie them. In an August report, the Government Services Administrations inspector general said that Trump met twice with top GSA officials about the future of the FBIs dilapidated headquarters in downtown D.C. The GSA ultimately decided to keep the headquarters on Pennsylvania Avenue rather than move it elsewhere, which would have led to the redevelopment of the FBIs current sitea massive parcel that surely would have attracted hotel developers. Trump may have taken a special interest in the project because the headquarters are located right across the street from his D.C. hotel.The Kavanaugh hearings led to another decisive blow to congressional oversight. Democrats wrangled with Republicans for months about the judges records from his days on the Whitewater investigation in the 1990s and the George W. Bush administration in the early 2000s. The GOP ultimately made only a fraction of his documents public. In September, Trump invoked executive privilege to withhold 100,000 pages of purportedly sensitive documents from Kavanaughs White House tenure. Chuck Schumer, the Senate Democratic leader, called the announcement a Friday night document massacre.The White House, like any, will bend on some congressional requests and hold firm on others. Inquiries into besieged Cabinet members may be allowed to proceed, so long as they dont touch the president himself. Scrutiny of controversial policies like the travel ban and the family separation policy may be hindered or curtailed, but not entirely thwarted. The closer the investigations get to Trump personally, though, the more he may resist them. Its conceivable that probes into his conversations with top officials about the Russia investigation, and matters involving his children and businesses, will be fought all the way to the Supreme Court. But in doing so, Trump would be giving a roadmap into what deserves more scrutiny, not less.In political terms, Trump will open any constitutional clash with a significant disadvantage. Many of his predecessors justified invoking executive privilege by citing the need to preserve the White Houses integrity as a coequal branch of government. Trump, by comparison, has shown little interest in the presidency as an institution, except insofar as it can be used to his benefit and to his political enemies frustration. So whenever he invokes executive privilege over the next two years, Democrats rightly will see it as a purely self-serving maneuver. They will smell the blood in the water.	Liberal
Has the Republican Partys grand experiment in union-busting finally come to an end? Scott Walker, the Republican governor of Wisconsin, rose to national prominence in 2011 when he passed a landmark bill dealing a blow to unions in the state and across the country. With Act 10, Walker stripped public workers of their right to collectively bargain, gutting their salaries, health care, and pensions. He then survived a vigorous recall effort, which featured 100,000 protesters storming the capitol rotunda in downtown Madison. Walker was the face of an anti-union movement championed by Republicans and backed by libertarian financiers like the Koch brothers. But seven years later, in the midst of an ostensibly booming state economy, Walker narrowly lost his reelection bid on November 6and he was not the only anti-union gubernatorial candidate to go down this election season.The defeat of Walker in Wisconsin, as well as Bill Schuette in Michigan, Bruce Rauner in Illinois, and Kris Kobach in Kansas, is evidence that union-bashing politicians are finding it difficult to appeal to workers in a humming economy, which would otherwise seem to validate their claims that low wages and right-to-work laws have unleashed the prosperity-making powers of the market. In fact, national support for unions is at 62 percent, a 15-year high, with particular muscle in the Midwest, and among women and millennials. Theres a sense in which Scott Walker and his ilk have overplayed their hand, said Lane Windham, the associate director of the labor center at Georgetown University. People understand that unions counterbalance corporate power, and corporations are too powerful.This was not the sense observers had two years ago when Donald Trump outperformed past Republican presidential candidates with union households and carried a string of states that formed the backbone of the old industrial Midwest. But his messagehostile to both trade and immigrantswent against the grain of Koch-style economic orthodoxy. While certain working class voters did gravitate toward Trump, the midterm election results in Wisconsin and elsewhere suggest that they have not been convinced by his partys economic agenda and may even have soured on Trump himself. According to a Reuters-Ipsos poll released earlier this year, Trumps support among union voters has fallen 15 points. Many voters living under Republican leadership are reacting to stagnant wages and the rise of underemployment. (Despite working fewer hours than they would prefer, underemployed workers get counted as employed in official statistics.) In 2011, when Amy Mizialko, president of the Milwaukee teachers union, first checked her pay stub online after Act 10 passed, she broke into tears. Those cuts were devastating, said Mizialko, who took a $10,000 cut in wages and benefits in the first year alone. Since the passage of Act 10, membership in Wisconsins largest teachers union plummeted from 98,000 to 32,000. Once the progressive heart of the labor movement in the United States, Wisconsin saw its union membership drop 46 percent between 2011 and 2017.While Walkers campaign underscored Wisconsins 3 percent unemployment rate (below the national average), workers in the state were fighting to find enough work and wages remained low. At $7.25 an hour, Wisconsins minimum wage has not budged since Walker took office seven years ago. And because of Act 10, many teachers and government workersdisproportionately women and African Americanshave had to find additional sources of income. In Wisconsin, people are working three or four jobs, said Mizialko. They are driving Uber. Theyre delivering groceries. Theyre picking up jobs at the state fair. Theyre just stitching together little stints of work to make ends meet for their families. They also bristled at Walkers cozy relationship with big business. In July 2017, he pledged $4.5 billion in state tax credits for the Taiwanese manufacturing giant FoxConn to build a state-of-the-art plant outside of Kenosha that promised to bring 13,000 jobs to the area. But as David Dayen wrote last week in The New Republic, the FoxConn deal has been a disaster and was an important factor in Walkers fall. The subsidy is the largest to a foreign corporation in U.S. history, and it comes at an enormous cost to taxpayers. Most of the subsidy will be delivered to FoxConn in direct cash paymentsat an estimated 18,000 in tax dollars per Wisconsin household.Walker was among a handful of Republican governorsincluding Rauner, Rick Snyder in Michigan, Eric Greitens in Missouri, and Mitch Daniels in Indianawho transformed the Midwest with their ideas about small government, austerity, and free market solutions. The Koch brothers Americans for Prosperity initiative (AFP) poured millions of dollars into the region to pass legislation that would hobble unions and freeze minimum wages. Meanwhile, gerrymandering and new voter restrictions that favor conservatives prevented voters from overturning those laws at the pollswith the exception of the upset victory of a proposition that repealed right-to-work in Missouri in August.Over the past decade, this right-wing alliance has reshaped the Midwest by decimating private and public sector unions. Right-to-work laws, which drastically undercut union power in the private sector, have passed in Michigan, Missouri, Indiana, Kentucky, and Wisconsin since 2012. Public sector unions underwent similar attacks in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan. Such laws make union dues optional, thereby draining unions of the funds they need to fight for workers. Workers in right-to-work states earn $1,558 less on average per year than similar workers in non-right-to-work states. When right-to-work passed under Rick Snyder in Michigan in 2012, Americans for Prosperity hailed the legislation as the shot heard around the world for workplace freedom. The passage of right-to-work laws has gone hand-in-hand with declining support for the Democratic Party in the Midwest. Until Trumps victory in 2016, Michigan and Wisconsin had not elected a Republican president since the 1980s. Unions have a long history of turning out Democratic voters, said Windham, the labor expert from Georgetown. Without unions to promote a working-class agenda, people are left to listen to right-wing radio. We have to think about that to understand what happened in Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania in 2016.But there is also a strong feeling that the Democratic Party has lost touch with its union roots, allowing a supposed populist like Trump to make inroads with working voters. That is starting to change, thanks in no small part to the wake-up call delivered by the 2016 election, which made it clear that Democrats cannot take those voters for granted. But there are other reasons some Democrats are re-embracing union politics, including a wave of teacher strikes in West Virginia, Oklahoma, Arizona, Kentucky, and Colorado that galvanized voters this year, as well as a growing realization that the face of union membership has changed, from the white industrial worker of the past century to a diverse coalition of women, immigrants, and minorities working in industries like hospitality, telecommunications, nursing, and media. Ironically, low employment across the Midwest gives workers the upper hand. Last year saw a slight uptick in union membership in the United States. Employers are eager to retain and hire workers, giving workers leverage to form and expand unions. Alongside fresh leadership, this provides an opportunity for workers to stage strikes, form unions, and restore the rights they have lost.The backlash to the GOPs anti-union efforts is also producing tangible results. Voters in Michigan elected Gretchen Whitmer as governor with the backing of the states unions. In Illinois, voters ousted the union-busting Republican incumbent Rauner, who vetoed a $15 minimum wage bill and fought to pass right-to-work laws. I think the public perception of unions is getting better each and every day. We are seeing young people responding very well to unions, said Stephanie Bloomingdale, president of the Wisconsin AFL-CIO. In Missouris August referendum on the states right-to-work laws, a full 65 percent of voters opted to overturn them.Still, rebuilding the labor movement in the Midwest will be a herculean task. Although the majority of Americans say they support unions, only 11 percent of U.S. workers belonged to unions in 2017. A defeat of Walker is a major victory, said Nelson Lichtenstein, a history professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara, but there is much ideological and organizational work to be done before liberalism and unionism are once again joined at the hip.	Liberal
In early 2011, when new census figures showed that Evergreen, Alabama, a small city midway between Montgomery and Mobile, had grown from 53 to 62 percent black over the previous ten years, the white majority on the city council took steps to maintain its political dominance. They redrew precinct lines, pushing almost all the citys black voters into two city council districts. Then, election administrators used utility information to purge roughly 500 registered black voters from the rolls, all but ensuring that whites would maintain their majority on the council and keep control of Evergreen. That kind of voter suppression is exactly what the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was passed to prevent. For 48 years, its preclearance provision barred election officials in states with histories of voter suppression from making changes to election procedures without permission from the federal government. It was far from a perfect systemeven with preclearance in place, Evergreen officials were able to purge the rollsbut it did help hundreds of thousands of black Southerners vote. By 1972, black registration rates had reached 50 percent in all but a few Southern states. In 2013, however, in Shelby County v. Holder, the Supreme Court gutted the Voting Rights Act, striking down the provisions of the law that defined which states fell under preclearance. Since then, efforts to keep people from voting have intensified. Officials in three states have shrunk early voting time lines, and one eliminated same-day registration. Five have implemented new voter ID laws. In Texas, someone can now vote with a handgun license but not a student ID. Georgia forces voters to use the same name on their application as the one on their ID card; something as trivial as an errant or missing hyphen, a dropped middle name, or the inclusion of an extra initial on an application could prevent someone from voting. (That was how Georgias Secretary of State and thenRepublican gubernatorial candidate Brian Kemp was able to block, if only temporarily, some 53,000 voter registrations, mostly from African Americans.) This year, South Dakota has said people must have a street address to cast a ballot, disenfranchising many Native Americans who, because they live on reservations, only have post office boxes. And just weeks before the midterms, reporters in Dodge City, Kansas, which has a growing Latino population, discovered that election officials gave newly registered voters the wrong polling site address. (The real location was outside of town, a mile from the nearest bus stop.) All told, voters in 23 states faced greater obstacles at their polling places than they did in the midterms eight years ago, according to the Brennan Center for Justice. (There are occasional, if rare, successes. In 2014, for example, citizens of Evergreen were able to bring the city back under federal control after 14 months in federal court.) Its time Democrats think seriously about restoring some of the provisions lost to Shelby. If there is one lesson to draw from the midterms, its that the right to vote is a partisan issue. Suppression, framed as election security or a last defense against voter fraud, has become a fundamental tactic of Republican efforts to exhaust, confuse, and disqualify Democratic votersand to win elections. Democrats must fight for access to the ballot for all citizens, and for the federal oversight necessary to assure it. The new Democratic majority in the House cannot be otherwise sustained. Such a bill would have to accomplish a few things: In 2013, the Supreme Courts conservative justices ruled that the Voting Rights Act unfairly singled out states for federal control because they had histories of discriminatory voting practices. But Democrats can sidestep those concerns by drafting new criteria to determine which jurisdictions have to submit to federal oversight. If, say, the share of citizens registered to vote drops suddenly, or the portion of registered voters who participate in elections goes below a certain point, that might be cause to bring a jurisdiction under federal control. It wouldnt matter whether the state had a history of discrimination; any state, no matter where it was, could be put under federal oversight so long as there were indications that discrimination was taking place now. Congress might also mandate that any voting law, like a strict voter ID requirement, that has historically prevented people of color from voting be proposed first to the federal government before its implemented. Republicans love voter ID; they think it is great, said Charles S. Bullock III, co-author of The Rise and Fall of the Voting Rights Act. But photo ID has also worked for Democrats, in a different way. Try to restrain the right to vote from anyone, and voting becomes the most important thing in the world. Its basic human nature. That should aid Democrats in their push to find the votes to pass such a bill. Of course, the chances of President Donald Trump signing one into law are remote. But a few Republicans in the Senate, eager to defend American ideals, might be willing to support it. After all, the more time and energy they commit to voter suppression, the more their party exposes its uneasiness with representative democracy.	Liberal
Jair Bolsonaro isnt big on democracy. The newly elected president has dismissed the notion of human rights as a disservice to Brazil. He has bemoaned the fact that its police force, one of the deadliest in the world, does not have the right to kill more freely, promising to give it carte blanche under his administration. He once proposed using a helicopter to drop pamphlets warning drug dealers to leave poor communities, or be fired upon indiscriminately. Bolsonaro is by far the most prominent elected official to praise the harsh military dictatorship that ruled the country from 1964 to 1985. A retired army captain who served in the military from 1977 to 1988, he was a lackluster soldier whose outsize political ambitions often rubbed senior military figures the wrong way. In 1986, for example, he complained to the press about the lack of pay raises and the dearth of professional prospects for soldiers on active duty. Soon after, he was court-martialed for stoking unrest. (He was accused of plotting to bomb a military barracks and was convicted, but won on appeal, and the charges against him were eventually dropped.) At the time, the military had only recently returned the government to civilian control. But Bolsonaro, unlike many leading figures in the military, never accepted its diminished role in Brazilian life. In his presidential campaign, he selected a general as his vice president and promised to name other military men to key posts in government. He wants to militarize Brazils borders and has described the Landless Workers Movement, an organization that occupies large, unproductive estates in the countryside to advocate for land reform and denounce rural inequality, as a terrorist organization. He has pledged, in short, to revive, in spirit if not necessarily by law, the repressive thrust of the military regime. Bolsonaros alignment with the armed forces follows a clear political logic. The military is the most trusted public institution in Brazil, polling much higher than Congress, which Brazilians see as hopelessly corrupt, or the judiciary, which is viewed as an insular cabal more interested in preserving its own privileges than in administering justice. (Brazilian judges are among the highest paid in the world.)  In recent years, other leaders in Latin America have profited from a right-wing wave. Mauricio Macri, a conservative multimillionaire, became president of Argentina in 2015; and in 2017, Chileans elected Sebastian Piera, who has brought into his cabinet officials tied to the brutal regime of Augusto Pinochet. But Bolsonaro stands apart for having accomplished something no politician has attempted since democracy was restored across the region almost 30 years ago: He has won a national election as an unabashed champion of military dictatorship. Bolsonaro served in the army at a time when its more moderate officials were negotiating a return to civilian government. There were still, however, hardliners who believed handing power back to the same corrupt political class the military had largely uprooted in 1964 was a mistake. They wanted, in other words, to continue hunting down leftists. Bolsonaro almost certainly belonged to this group. During his three decades in Congress, he often lamented that the regime was not more deadly, arguing that killing 30,000 political enemies during the dictatorship would have been better than the several hundred who actually died. (The dictatorship erred by torturing and not killing, is a common line.) It makes sense that such militaristic rhetoric would have endeared Bolsonaro to the armed forces, but its not clear why the rest of Brazil was taken in by it. Only a tiny minority has called for a military intervention like the one that ushered in dictatorship in 1964. What explains his victory? One simple answer is the recession. Brazil has been mired in deep economic trouble since 2014. To the poorest Brazilians, Bolsonaro has promised gainful employment and the preservation of their government benefits; to the middle class, a return of the status they lost while the left-wing Workers Party was in power; and to the wealthiest Brazilians and investors, open markets, less stringent labor laws, and lower taxes. Its an attractive agenda for those who believe the economy will only bounce back if the government gets out of the way. Bolsonaro has also promised to eradicate crime, something even his more ardent opponents have welcomed. But few voters would have taken his violent solutions seriously, nor seen him as a legitimate candidate, were it not for the gradual rehabilitation of the dictatorship in the public consciousness. Its been 33 years since military rule ended in Brazil. And as painful memories of that period recede into the past, the regimes hard edges have softened, helped along by a new wave of politicians, economists, movements, pundits, and intellectuals who have sought to counter what they see as the leftist stranglehold on Brazilian political life over the last decade and a half.  It remains to be seen whether Bolsonaros militaristic nationalist appeal will endure if Brazils economy is slow to recover. Then again, it may not matter, assuming Bolsonaro succeeds in his goals of shoring up the repressive powers of the state. The people of Brazil have volunteered their support for him; they may not be allowed to withdraw it.	Liberal
Boris Johnsonformer mayor of London, gadfly of the British political establishment, and, most recently, Brexits cheerleader-in-chiefhas a colorful range of rebuttals when asked about his evident desire to be prime minister. As I never tire of saying, my chances of becoming prime minister are only slightly better than being decapitated by a frisbee, blinded by a champagne cork, locked in a fridge, or being reincarnated as an olive, he said in 2012. In the 2013 BBC documentary, Boris Johnson: The Irresistible Rise, he delivered another: I think its a very tough job being prime minister, a very tough job, he said. I mean, obviously, if the ball came loose from the back of a scrumwhich it wont, of courseit would be a great, great thing to have a crack at. But its not going to happen. On June 24, 2016, the day after Britain voted to leave the European Union, the ball did come loose. David Cameron, prime minister since 2010, announced that, having campaigned for Britain to remain inside the EU, he was not the right leader for leaving it. Cameron knew that holding the referendum would threaten his leadership, since it would galvanize the Brexit wing of his Conservative Party. (The only person this will help is Boris Johnson, who is clearly after my job, he reportedly told a colleague in the build-up.) But the speed of Camerons resignation was still a surprise. Johnson never expected to win the referendum. And when he did, he did not expect Cameron to quit so quickly. With the country in chaos, Johnson suddenly found himself exactly where he wanted to be. His Brexit-cum-leadership campaign had been, personally, a great success. He stood as the immediate and obvious favorite to replace Cameron. Theresa May, who backed staying in the EU but remained tactfully taciturn throughout, was a distant second. In the days that followed, Johnson assembled his Brexit dream team, with Conservative MP Michael Gove as manager and their fellow Brexiteer Andrea Leadsom alongside them. His fantasy had never felt so tangible: On the rugby pitch of British politics, Johnson could see the ball bumbling along the grass before him, all but within his grasp.But then, as if to prove it really was only a dreamcould only ever be a dreamJohnsons leadership chances collapsed as quickly as they converged. First Leadsom withdrew her supportunconvinced by Johnsons promises, she decided to run herselfand then Gove, incredibly, did the same. It remains one of the great betrayals of British politics, and perhaps the most brutal moment of Johnsons career: Gove was supposed to be Johnsons closest ally, the team behind the dream. Johnson withdrew from the race, aware his support no longer added up. Gove and Leadsome blundered, and May became prime minister, almost unopposed. Shortly after, as May formed her cabinet, she took the surprise step of appointing Johnson as her foreign secretary. It was a calculated consolation, premised on what by now was ancient party wisdom: Johnson is far more of a threat outside the cabinet than inside. Two years later, however, as Mays Brexit plan seemed destined to split the party, Johnson stepped down from his post, putting himself outside the scrum once more, ready for another opportunity.For Johnson, the foreign secretarys office had been his most senior political position to date. But it paled next to what he had been preparing for his whole career. I dont believe this man is ready, Gove had told the Spectator in July 2016, justifying his decision to ditch Johnson. Those words must have pricked Johnsons pride. In his eyes, he was born ready. If anything, at the age of 54, he is running late.When people speak of the rise of Boris Johnson, they miss the defining feature of his career. It is neither the ascent, nor the frequent fallsnor even the rapid comebacks from the controversies. It is the remarkable constancy. Since his education at Eton, the elite boarding-school that has taught a third of Britains prime ministers, and then the University of Oxford, which housed half of them, Johnson has always hovered near the peak of British politics.At Eton, which he joined at 13, he found a suitably regal setting for his ambition. He became secretary of the school debating society, editor of the school newspaper, and, at 17, joined the exclusive Eton Society, an elite-within-the-elite that permitted members to wear a special uniform of spongebag trousers alongside other quaint privileges.At Oxford, Johnson pursued the same path. He co-edited the universitys satirical magazine and joined the notorious Bullingdon Club, another ultra-privileged group infamous for vandalizing restaurants, paying for the damage with parents credit cards, and burning 50 notes in front of homeless people. He became secretary of the Oxford Union, the universitys prestigious debating society, and then, on the second attempt, its president. Of all his youthful conquests, this final one was the most revealing. After Johnson initially lost the election in 1984, campaigning as a free-market conservative, he returned with a renewed brand: an unlikely sympathizer of the Social Democrat Party, broadening his appeal to victory.Its a strategy that he has replicated ever since. The result is that, even after so long in the public eye and even by the ignominious standards of a politician, Boris Johnsons sincerity is never certain, his genuine political beliefs elusive. At a time when most British politicians seem bland and one-dimensional, Johnson has mastered the art of holding multiple identities at oncea man of so many masks that, one stacked upon the other, they have granted him a rare depth. Hes a conservative who believes in a small state and the sanctity of the marketin a 2013 lecture to honor Margaret Thatcher, he praised greed as a valuable spur to economic activitybut even this is easy to miss in the absence of any clear policy positions. While his stances on social issues can suggest hes a liberal, the language he uses, the casual racism it contains, the causes he pursues, and the company he keeps often suggest that he is not.Regardless of how emphatically Johnson holds a position, there is always the possibility, even the inevitability, that he will contradict it later down the line. While mayor of London, Johnson described Donald Trump as clearly out of his mind and betraying a quite stupefying ignorance that makes him frankly unfit to hold the office of president of the United States. As foreign secretary, he passionately defended the U.S. president. I am increasingly admiring of Donald Trump, Johnson said, in comments leaked ahead of Trumps U.K. visit in July. I have become more and more convinced that there is method in his madness.Ideally, Johnson appeals to two opposing sides simultaneously. So when he recently described Muslim women who wear burqas as looking like letter-boxes, he did so in an article that actually defended their right to wear themendearing himself with the far-right and affirming his supposed liberalism at once. In a 2007 interview with Pink News, as Johnson tried to court the gay vote in his campaign to be mayor of London, he appeared to acknowledge this as a deliberate tactic. He dismissed a range of offensive things he had previously written about the gay community, saying: I am on record with loads of provocative articles about loads of things, but if you take the article as a whole, they always amount to robust common sense. The incriminating claims included that, if gay marriage were legal, then you could have marital unions consecrated between three men, as well as two men, or indeed three men and a dog.Johnsons flakiness has always been there, co-existing with but never counteracting his ostensible charm. With an affability that most politicians lack, this unpredictability is passed off as eccentricity, the essence of his appeal. Boris is Boris is the unthinking tautology deployed by colleagues and sympathetic commentators to justify Johnsons actions, however dubious. On a recent trip to Washington, D.C., Johnson was asked what his biggest mistake was. My strategy is to litter my career with so many decoy mistakes, nobody knows which one to attack, Johnson replied. At the heart of his staying power is his sense of humor. Johnson has found that the truth matters less if you can make people laugh. Your words and your actions will be forgotten, but your name and your face will be remembered, smilingly. Johnsons self-deprecating jests protect him from the usual charges laid against politicians, evenor especiallythose he exhibits to a more extreme degree: evasiveness, selfishness, and hypocrisy. For Johnson, who can decide in reverse when he is or isnt being serious, any incriminating example can be laughed off as a joke or, even better, with one.In a fawning 2003 profile by The Observer, the Sunday edition of The Guardian, Johnson was described in effusive terms. Five minutes in his company and I was totally charmed, the interviewer, Lynn Barber, declared. I am now a fully signed-up member of the Boris Johnson Fan Club. But doubts still lingered as Barber wondered: Johnson is so larky, so ready to retract an opinion, or agree with criticism, that it is very difficult to sort out what he really believes. ... What would he consider a resigning matter? Johnson laughed off Barbers question. Im a bit of an optimist so it doesnt tend to occur to me to resign, he said. Of course, Johnson can now claim he has found his resigning matter: Brexit. He cited Mays Brexit proposal as the reason, declaring in his July 9 resignation letter that, by planning to keep Britain at the behest of the EUs regulatory system but without the benefits of membership, it meant Britain was truly headed for the status of colony.Johnson has a sixth sense, or at least a second stomach, for publicity, and so it was not enough to resign with such a provocative claim. He also arranged for a Daily Telegraph photographer to capture the moment he signed his resignation letter. In the photograph, he is sitting pensively at his office desk, an air of gravity about him, the stare of a statesman, posing with his paper and pen. A future prime minister, perhaps? He looked the part, at least. And for Johnson, a man of surfaces who sometimes seems imprisoned by his own jocular self-image, that would be enough for now.For all the bluster about Britain becoming a colony, Johnsons Brexit posturing may be the paradigmatic example of his own post-truth approach to politicsone that predated the current vogue. As a journalist in Brussels for the Daily Telegraph in the 1990s, Johnson was known for filing far-fetched stories that stoked anti-EU sentiment in Britain: They were often false, but they consciously fed into a structure of feeling, now ubiquitous, that framed the EU as a bureaucratic beast, malignly meddling in British affairs. The spirit of those reportseither invented or exaggerated with a comics panacheinfused some of his more infamous claims about the EU: that it wanted to introduce one-size-fits-all condoms, stop Brits dipping their bread in olive oil, ban prawn-and-cocktail flavored crisps (a British favorite), and swallow the nation in a federalizing frenzy.What drives Johnsons actions are not beliefs, however, but rather a desire, a demand, to be at the heart of things. These inflammatory reports were not ideologically motivated in opposition to the EU. They were a way of putting himself into the fray of the Conservative Party politics, where EU membership has always verged on an obsession. (When Cameron first became leader of the Conservatives in 2005, he told the party to stop banging on about Europe.) As Johnson explained in 2005, Everything I wrote from Brussels, I found I was sort of chucking these rocks over the garden wall and I listened to this amazing crash from the greenhouse next door over in England as everything I wrote from Brussels was having this amazing, explosive effect on the Tory party, and it really gave me this rather weird sense of power.Though his true intentions can never be known, Johnsons decision to cast his lot with the Leave campaign during the referendum was almost certainly made with his leadership ambitions in mind: backing Brexit gave Johnson an unprecedented publicity run and the chance to position himself as the unlikely opponent of the British establishment. Johnson can say that he fought for Brexit, that he believes in it more than anyone else, and, now, that he has resigned over it. But when David Cameron called the referendum, Johnson was one of the last to decide which way he would campaign. Johnsons declared his decision on a Sunday afternoon, February 21, 2016. Only two weeks earlier, he had written that leaving the EU would be an arduous task that diverted energy from the real problems of this countrylow skills, low social mobility, low investment, etc.that have nothing to do with Europe. Some senior colleagues were infuriated with his decision. Others, especially backbench Conservative MPs, were delighted. Nigel Farage, Britains infamous anti-immigration impresario, said he jumped for joy. The following day, he published a column in the Daily Telegraph explaining his decision. The message was typically convoluted, suggesting that voting to leave the EU, rather than Britain actually leaving the EU, was the aim: All EU history shows that they only really listen to a population when it says No. Over the course of the campaign, as he led the Leave side with his ally Michael Gove, Johnson maintained his double-act. In one moment he would declare that the EU was born of the highest motivesto keep the peace in Europe; in another he would compare it to Hitlers plan to conquer Europe. He dismissed the idea that the Brexit campaign was inciting xenophobia by maintaining that he was personally very pro-immigration, at the same time as he implied that Turkeys imminent (and imagined) membership of the EU was an existential threat. This lie, with its tacit warning of a sudden influx of millions of Turkish citizens, had clear racist undertones. The Leave campaign exploited it unashamedly: They put it up on billboards and, a week before the vote, Johnson and Gove wrote a public letter demanding that Cameron guarantee that Turkey would never join the European Union.Johnson, whose great-grandfather was Turkish (as he made a point of noting while mayor of cosmopolitan London), was actually one of the biggest proponents for Turkey joining the EU before the referendum. What are we saying if we perpetually keep Turkey out of the European Union just because its Muslim? he said in 2006. It sends out the worst possible signal to moderates in the Islamic world. Since the referendum, he has once again expressed his support for Turkeys membership. On June 22, 2016, the eve of the vote, Johnson confirmed reports that, on the weekend that he wrote his article explaining why he was backing Leave, he also wrote a separate article, explaining why he was backing Remain. Shut your eyes, he wrote, in the article eventually leaked to The Sunday Times in October, later that year. Hold your breath. Think of Britain. Think of the rest of the EU. Think of the future. Think of the desire of your children, and your grandchildren to live and work in other European countries; to sell things there, to make things there and perhaps to find partners there. Ask yourself: in spite of all the defects and disappointments of this exercisedo you really, truly, definitely want Britain to pull out of the European Union? Now? You can almost picture Johnson on that decisive, late-winter weekend with a mask in either hand, wondering to himself: Which one shall I wear? Perhaps he was aware that, whichever one he chose this time, he might not be able to take it off.Two and a half years after the vote, Britain remains inside the EU. But at 11pm local time on March, 29, 2019the default deadline for Brexit negotiationseither Britain leaves the European Union with a new relationship in place (and a 21-month transition period to adjust) or, more worryingly, the negotiations end unsuccessfully and Britain leaves the EU without one. This latter scenario is known as a no deal, whereby Britain is effectively ejected from the EU overnight: four decades of legal and institutional integration suddenly become void, jeopardizing the most basic functions of the British state.According to almost every analysis, a no deal would be the worst outcome for both Britain and the EU, albeit far more so for the former. The consequences would be immediate and long-lasting. Supermarkets and pharmaceutical companies have started stockpiling essential supplies in anticipation of border chaos, GDP is forecasted to fall by several percentage points, and the value of the pound is expected to plummet. But Mays most obstinate obstacle to the best possible deal is not her negotiating opponent, the EU, but rather her own divided side. Any deal needs to be ratified by Parliament, where May holds a slender working majority of 13 seats thanks to a coalition with the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), a small, hard-line party from Northern Ireland. The DUP have warned that they will not blindly back any Brexit deal. At the moment, however, May cannot even appease her own party.Whereas May favors continuity and access to the Single Market, in line with the wishes of most British businesses, Brexiteers deem this Brexit in name only and demand a clean break from the EU. In their eyes, EU regulationswhich include pro-labor policies and relatively high environmental standardsconstrain the sanctity of the market. With as many as 80 MPs among their ranks, these Conservatives look set to vote down Mays deal in Parliament, threatening a leadership election. Their chosen candidate is clear, and Johnson is all too happy to fan their fury. In early November, amid reports that May was close to a deal with the EU, Johnson swiftly wrote a column denouncing it as a national humiliation that would result in wholesale subjection. He reiterated his claim that Britain would become a vassal statea colony.Johnsons baseless bravado, coupled with his indifference to the details, may make him an ideal leader for Britain in the age of Brexita realm of fantasy where the details, with all their real-world consequences, are anathema. According to Johnson, Britain will do very well even in the case of no deal. His sense of entitlement is also fitting. Just as Johnson sees himself as above and beyond his own partyBoris is Boris before he is a Conservativeso too does Britain imagine itself to be superior to its neighbors: a nation simply too great to be subsumed within a supranational organization like the EU. So even as one bleak forecast follows another, Johnsons positivity regarding Brexit never wavers. If I have a function here today, he declared at the annual Conservative Party conference in October, it is to try, with all humility, to put some lead in the collective pencil, to stop what seems to me to be a ridiculous seeping away of our self-belief. When Johnson resigned as foreign secretary, he rued how the Brexit dream is dying.The dream must end eventually. The emancipatory promise of leaving will soon confront the laborious and costly process of living alone. Johnson will do everything he can to resist and delay this confrontation. The Brexit dream cannot be weighed down with details because it is now bound up with another dreamthe only one Johnson knows. His principled resignation in protest of Mays plan thus belied a more pragmatic purpose: a fear of being outflanked by rival Brexiteers, two of whom resigned the day before him. Now, having quit Mays cabinet, Johnson maintains that, despite all his attacks on Mays government and his clamor for attention, he does not want to take her place. He simply wants whats best for Britain. I am like a loyal and faithful labrador that is relentlessly returning to her an object that she has mistakenly chucked away in the form of her own first instincts about how to do this, he said in a recent interview, alluding to an earlier vision of Brexit May laid out in vague speech in January 2017, which he reportedly helped to write.  For Johnson, questions about his intentions arrive like cues in a comedy routine, but his own dogged ambition is clear. Unlike the prime minister, I campaigned for Brexit. Unlike the prime minister, I fought for this, I believe in it, I think its the right thing for our country, he said in the same interview. But it is an empty ambition, devoid of vision and hungry only for the top prize. With no obvious ideal other than his own self-image, Johnsons convictions are more like crutches, carrying him to the next career goal where they can be replaced with new ones.The problem is that, as the trail of betrayal and broken promises extends behind him, the foundations of his successhis liquidity, his unseriousness, his contradictionsnow inhibit him from going any further. There are times when he seems to sense this himself, worrying that he has been typecast as Parliaments jester. Yet Johnsons weakness is not that people dont take him seriouslythat has always been his strengthits that now they do and they dont trust his intentions. Johnson has become deeply unpopular within his own party, even as he is accepted as an important asset. One prominent Conservative MP, Dominic Grieve, has said he would leave the party if he became their leader. There are reportedly plans in place, when any new leadership election occurs, to thwart him. Such a plan was already getting into gear when May was elected, under the acronym ABB: Anyone But Boris. There are signs that this antipathy is seeping into Conservative voters as well: In October, YouGovs favorability tracker on Johnson reached its lowest level since it was launched in 2016. On November 2, the Sun quoted close friends of Johnson saying that he had given up replacing May.But if Johnsons career has shown anything, it is that he is willing to wait. His decision to resign as foreign secretary re-ingratiated himself with the Conservative Party membership, dwindling as it may be. (Party membership has dropped so low that, in 2017, the Conservatives received more money from bequests from the dead than living members.) Johnson is adored by this shrinking faction both for his humor and enthusiasm. Whereas May pursues a more moderate Brexit position, constrained by the demands of practicality, Johnson presents himself as the Brexit Dream embodied, invoking fantasies of empire with an implausible optimism.Besides, Johnson now enjoys friends outside the mainstream: beyond the party and even, occasionally, beyond the country. With his new appeals to the far right, Breitbart has become a loyal proponent. Arron Banks, one of the main financial backers of Brexit with ties to Trump (and currently under criminal investigation for his role in the referendum), has expressed his intention to run a new digital advertising campaign to elect Johnson as leader of the Conservative Party. Trump himself, on his latest trip to London, said Johnson would make a great prime minister. Steve Bannon, with whom Johnson is reportedly in regular contact, said the same: Boris just needs to be Boristrue to his nature and his callingand I think he has potential to be a great prime minister, not a good one. In a sense, this support sums up Johnsons career: having been mayor of London for two termsa city that voted overwhelmingly against Brexitand having been, at best, personally torn on the issue of Brexit, Johnson has now made Brexit his true calling, presenting himself as its inveterate advocate. His new allies on the alt-right are a testament to how far he has drifted, and to how hollow his politics have always been.In London, a city that sang his name during the 2012 Olympics, when he was the countrys most popular politician, a gym has started offering Brexfit classes that let gym-goers unload their Brexit anger. Alongside other politician-themed activities, there are now punching bags with Johnsons face, one of the main attractions. They are a fitting monument to Johnson, not only to his transformationfrom a beloved, deviant clown to a figure of hatebut also to his unshakeable staying power amidst it all. For all the punches thrown at him, the face of Boris Johnson keeps bouncing back.	Liberal
Stan Lee was a fiction, a mask that eventually became a face. It was a pen name designed by a teenage boy, not to gain fame but to hide work he thought would embarrass him.The man who would become the editor-in-chief of Marvel Comics was born Stanley Lieber, the child of Romanian Jewish immigrants, in New York City. A verbally adept child and lightning fast writer, he attended DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, already famous as a nursery for writers and artists (James Baldwin and Neil Simon would also one day elevate the alumni list). He dreamed of writing the Great American Novel and took the name Stan Lee when he started writing comic books because he wanted to keep the Stanley Lieber name for the serious work he would one day produce. Stanley Lieber would never write those novels but instead, under the guise of Stan Lee, achieve as much of a global impact as he could have wanted.After graduation in 1939, he went to work for Timely Comics, owned by Martin Goodman, the husband of one of his cousins. Aided by family connections, he quickly rose in ranks, becoming the editor of the entire Timely Comics line in 1941, when he was only 19. His rise was accelerated by the fact that Timely had lost its two most popular creators: Jack Kirby and Joe Simon, the team that birthed the best-selling Captain America series, had left after a financial dispute with Goodman. Timely Comics would re-invent itself every decade or so, first as Atlas Comics in the 1950s and then as Marvel Comics in 1961, but Lee remained at the editorial helm until 1972, interrupted only by his wartime service.When Lee joined it, the comics industry was the disreputable bottom rung of pulp publishing, with many companies run as fly-by-night operations and mobster-run money laundering schemes. It was notorious for low wage rates and general exploitation of artists. It was a boom and bust industry, with huge sales after the creation of characters like Superman or Captain America followed by quick busts, sometimes spurred on by censorship (there was a Senate investigation of horror comics in 1954) and poor distribution.Even within that dismal industry, Timely was held in low repute, best known for doing knock-offs of popular genres. When Archie comics took off, Timely hit the stands with a spate of teen comedies, and then repeated the trick with the rise of westerns, romance comics, and horror comics. Lee remained at the top of Timelyhardly an enviable position. Hed frequently have to let staffers go. Its like a ship sinking, and were the rats, he told an artist in the 1950s. And weve got to get off. Lee fell back on his core gifts: an eye for talent, a gift for gab, and an endless supply of energy. He was a prolific writer but not a particularly distinguished one (his cornball dialogue paled in comparison the urbane snappiness of Carl Barkss Uncle Scrooge or John Stanleys Little Lulu). But more than any other editor in comics, Lee was sensitive to dynamic art, and he was able in 1956 to recruit the two most visionary artists to ever work in superhero comics, Jack Kirby and Steve Ditko. In the late 1950s, Ditko and Kirby were already helping to energize Lees line with popular monster comics, done in the spirit of Godzilla movies. But the real revolution would come in 1961 when Lee and Kirby launched The Fantastic Four, the cornerstone of Marvel Comics, featuring a blended family that took on the mantle of superheroes even though they bickered amongst themselves. One of the cast members, the Thing, looked like an escapee from a monster comics. The blurring of the lines between good and evil would be a recurring theme of the series. In characterization and soap opera plots, the Fantastic Four, which quickly evolved to a sprawling cosmic roman-fleuve, owed much to the romance comics Kirby pioneered in the 1940s. The title set the pace for Marvel Comics (as the line was now called). The formula for Marvel Comics evolved helter-skelter as Lee and Kirby poured out many monthly titles: flawed heroes, stories that mixed folklore with space opera, open-ended plots, and allegorical allusions to contemporary politics (frequently touching on the evil of discrimination). Lee and Kirby brought this formula to a host of characters: Thor, the Hulk, the X-Men, the Silver Surfer, the Black Panther, many more. Less prolific, Ditko collaborated with Lee on the gritty Spider-Man and the psychedelic Doctor Strange. Because Lee encouraged Kirby and Ditko to cross-pollinate their narratives, Marvel Comics started to gain the cohesion of a shared universe, an innovation in popular culture that would later be replicated when Hollywood producers shaped the Marvel Cinematic Universe. As Lee was the public face of the company, while Kirby and Ditko were freelancers, early press accounts, encouraged by Lees credit-hogging tendencies, tended to portray him as the mastermind behind the Marvel Universe. Ill take any credit that isnt nailed down, Lee once joked. Lee as creator of the Marvel Universe was a myth. Kirby and Ditko were the main creators of the characters and they plotted out most of the stories they worked on. Lee added the dialogue in after the fact. And the dialogue was always the weakest part of any comic he worked on. Lees true genius was not as a writer or creator but as an editor, who brought the best talent to Marvel and pushed writers in the right direction, helping them flourish. Lees jokey hyperbolic carnival barker prose, alliterative and infectious, also helped give the Marvel line a comfortable cohesion that made them fan favorites.But the success of Marvel Comics left Lee dissatisfied. Ditko left Marvel in 1966, Kirby in 1970, both men complaining bitterly that Lee took credit for their work. During the last years of their lives Kirby (who died in 1994) and Ditko (who died earlier this year) rarely spoke of Lee without rancor. Soon thereafter Lee himself stopped writing comics full-time and moved to the California, to try to sell Marvel characters to Hollywood. Initially it was hard going, but once special effects caught up with the visual imagination of Kirby and Ditko, the Marvel Universe, for better or worse, became a fixture of global cinema. Comics made Lee world-famous, but part of him was always uneasy with that achievement. I cant understand people who read comics! he told the film director Alain Resnais at a cocktail party in 1969. I wouldnt read them if I had the time and wasnt in the business.In a 1971 panel discussion, Lee offered even harsher words. I would say that the comic-book market is the worst market that there is on the face of the earth for creative talent, and the reasons are numberless and legion, he complained. Because even if you succeed, even if you reach what might be considered the pinnacle of success in comics, you will be less successful, less secure and less effective than if you are just an average practitioner of your art in television, radio, movies or what have you. It is a business in which the creator, as was mentioned before, owns nothing of his creation. The publisher owns it.Stanley Lieber transformed himself into Stan Lee, but there was always part of him that regretted the change. Stan Lee, the midwife of the Marvel Universe, died on November 12, 2018, at age 95. 	Liberal
On Friday afternoon, as several counties across California were being incinerated by late-season wildfires, President Donald Trump signed a declaration providing federal money for the emergency response. But the president clearly wasnt happy about it. About 10 hours later, he made a threat: If California goes up in flames like this again, he might just let it burn.There is no reason for these massive, deadly and costly forest fires in California except that forest management is so poor. Billions of dollars are given each year, with so many lives lost, all because of gross mismanagement of the forests. Remedy now, or no more Fed payments!At the very moment Trump sent his Saturday morning tweet, the Camp Fire in Butte County was actively burning homes to the ground, and the 27,000 residents of Paradise, California were only beginning to take stock of their massive losses. Mere hours beforehand, thousands were fleeing the city in panic, many abandoning their cars and running through the woods to escape the rapidly-encroaching heat and suffocating smoke. Several people died. By Monday, the Camp Fire had become the deadliest and most destructive wildfire in state history.Oh my God.. embers are going in the car... I cant hardly breathe... Coming up on @NBCNightlyNews, video of one familys terrifying escape from Paradise, California as flames close in. #CampFire #ButteCounty pic.twitter.com/YrIz6ptJ3FA few hundred miles south, the rapidly spreading Woolsey Fire and the nearby Hill Fire had just started picking up speed. When Trump sent his tweet, at least 75,000 homes in Ventura and Los Angeles counties were under evacuation order. By Monday, that number had ballooned to 200,000. With only 20 percent of the fire contained, nearly 400 structures had been destroyed.Was just sent this video from the Seminole Springs mobile home park in Malibu. Most got out with just the shirt on their backs. Now theyve lost count after seeing more than 100 structures destroyed by the #WoolseyFire. : Eric Videgain pic.twitter.com/HH2lOefzkhThe death toll from the fires is still on the rise. So far, two have been found dead in the path of the Hill Fire, according to the Associated Press. And as of Monday, the Camp Fire had killed at least 29 peoplethough more than 200 remain unaccounted for. By the time the flames die down, thousands of people will have lost family and friends. A similar number will have lost their homes, and potentially everything they own. That Trump would threaten California in the midst of this tragedy is, on its own, an act of cruelty. But his tweet was also plain wrong. He complained that the costly blazes wouldnt have happened were it not for gross mismanagement of the forests. But theres no dense forest surrounding the cities hit hardest by the fires. The area thats burned is not particularly foresty; its brush, said Sharon McNary, a reporter for Southern California Public Radio. Its classic brush fire territory. The Pasadena Firefighters Association also corrected the president:Mr. President, with all due respect, you are wrong.  The fires in So. Cal are urban interface fires and have NOTHING to do with forest management.  Come to SoCal and learn the facts & help the victims.  Scott Austin, Pres IAFF 809. @IAFFNewsDesk https://t.co/d3jY0SeosFIts true that forest management is a problem in California. The states forests have more than 100 million dead trees, providing more fuel for wildfires. But thats as much the federal governments fault as it is Californias. The U.S. Forest Service is supposed to help clear the trees, but historically has had to spend most of its budget on fighting fires. Trump has signed legislation to give the Forest Service an additional $2 billion to manage forests, but that doesnt go into effect until 2020.Regardless, poor forest management isnt to blame for the severity of these particular fires. That honor goes to the weather. Forest management has nothing to do with mountain winds coming down the passes at 70 miles per hour, or humidity levels in one hour dropping Thursday from 35 percent down into single digits, dryer than most deserts, CNN meteorologist Tom Sater explained on Sunday. And weather like this is already becoming more likely in California due to climate change.Theres also the problem of rapid urban sprawl within the Wildland-Urban Interface, where forests and other undeveloped lands meet areas inhabited by humans. There are approximately 45 million homes in these interfaces across the country, and the Forest Service expects that number will rise another 40 percent by 2030. If there is a vulnerability here, its the people who live in this area who built in the Wildland-Urban Interface and not the forest management itself, McNary said.Saturday wasnt the first time Trump has offered a false explanation for a devastating wildfire. This past summer, he tweeted that firefighters in California didnt have access to enough water to fight wildfires, a claim that stupefied firefighters. It also wasnt the first time that Trump has attacked Americans amid tragedy: Just weeks after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico, in a series of tweets, he called the islands electrical grid and infrastructure a disaster and said that the government cannot keep FEMA, the Military & the First Responders, who have been amazing (under the most difficult circumstances) in P.R. forever!But Trumps tweet on Saturday was a new lowsimultaneously ignorant and inhumane. Since then, he has seesawed between words of concern and complaint. A tweet on Saturday evening, in which he finally expressed sadness for the wildfire victims, suggested that he had come to regret his misinformed, and obviously partisan, attack on Californian authorities.More than 4,000 are fighting the Camp and Woolsey Fires in California that have burned over 170,000 acres. Our hearts are with those fighting the fires, the 52,000 who have evacuated, and the families of the 11 who have died. The destruction is catastrophic. God Bless them all.Or perhaps not. By Sunday morning, he was back to business as usual.With proper Forest Management, we can stop the devastation constantly going on in California. Get Smart!And on Mondayperhaps due to a growing backlash from firefighters, a blue-collar constituency he claims to representTrump finally thanked them for their heroism.The California Fire Fighters, FEMA and  First Responders are amazing and very brave. Thank you and God Bless you all!Its only a matter of time before he complains about forest management again.	Liberal
With Democrats in control of the House, they are now faced with the question of how best to use their legislative authority. Nancy Pelosi has already drafted a lengthy list of goals: lowering prescription drug prices, investing in infrastructure, restoring background checks for gun buyers, protecting Dreamers with legal residency status, among others. President Trump has signaled at least some interest in cooperating on a few of these, telling Fox and Friends in October that he shared many areas of commonality with Democrats. Trump has always had a putative willingness to break from GOP orthodoxy. Perhaps, with a divided Congress, his ideology-free approach to policy could combine with Democratic fears of being tagged as obstructionist, and grease the wheels for compromise. Chasing quick policy victories may be tempting. But compromise measures that can pass the House, gain Republican support in the Senate, and be signed into law by Trump are unlikelyto put it mildlyto be particularly progressive. And handing the president public-relations victories that he can campaign onHe finally pivoted to infrastructure! He lowered prescription drug prices!might undermine future Democratic presidential hopefuls seeking to run on those issues in 2020. Beyond tactical advantage, there is a more important reason to spurn a short-term agenda: Any legislation passed in 2019 is not really about policy, but an opening salvo in the larger battle of political ideas and values the country will face in the coming years. Democrats should see this next Congress as a first phase of what could be a thoroughly transformative era of American politics.  There will be many Democrats taken with the desire to return to normal in politics. What could be more normal and forward-looking than solid policy victories forged out of common ground with the president? Yet these are not normal days. The United States is in a moment of dramatic ideological flux. The rise of white nationalism as a political forceand Trumps election enabling its full absorption into the modern GOPhave opened a moral rift in the nations politics. This division cannot be wiped away by a return to policy-making norms. Congressional Democrats should forget about just doing something, and pursue a legislative agenda that offers a clear moral visioneven if they dont pass a thing in 2019 or 2020. Despite their success in November, the left must remember that political transformations dont just happen. Previous periods of change emerged after painstaking, decades-long work of building grassroots movements and advancing bold, compelling ideas. That the center of gravity has shifted in mainstream party politics is often only apparent after the fact. Consider the First Gilded Age of the late nineteenth century, when the country faced a surprisingly similar confluence of problems: widening financial inequality, rampant corruption and concentrated corporate power, and a judiciary hostile to reform. It was at this low societal ebb that the organized labor, consumer rights, and antitrust movements, among others, came into being. Coinciding with these national trends were experiments in democratic reform at the state and local levelautonomous policy-making power for cities, the rise of ballot referendumsas well as early efforts at regulating monopolies, railroads, and establishing consumer protections. Many of these policies were pioneered by state legislatures, and then attemptedwith varying degrees of failure and successin Congress during the Progressive Era. Together, they acted as a sort of social proof of concept for what more robust economic regulation, labor rights, and consumer protections might look like. They paved the way for the more radical and transformational public policies implemented in the New Deal a decade or two later by understanding how important it was to set standards rather than merely win.Another lesson this Congress might take from history would be the importance of changing party structures from the inside. The labor movement achieved some of its most important political victories in the midcentury only after it gained a foothold within the Democratic Party. Similarly, it was the alliance with the GOP that helped make the NRA the potent political force it is today. In the 1930s and 1940s, the Congress of Industrial Organizations, a multiracial labor union founded in 1935, occupied the left flank of the New Deal coalition, where it pressured FDR to resist compromise with congressional conservatives. The CIO also shifted the balance of power at the state level: As Northern politicians increasingly sought African American votes, the CIO was able to convince state parties to add civil rights planks to their platforms decades before 1964, when the Civil Rights Act was finally enacted. And in this, the CIOs influence extended far beyond a single election or legislative session.  The experience of labor and civil rights in the midcentury is instructive today. Those movements pushed for legislative policy, but their biggest long-term impact came once they had driven a new generation of legislators into office, who gradually shifted the partys baseline platform. Over time, it became more centrally associated first with labor, and then with civil rights. Todays liberals should follow this model. If they want to change the country, they should focus on changing the Democratic Party, rather than passing bills that are only going to die in the Senate or get booted off Trumps desk in the Oval Office.So what does that mean for 2018? As Ayanna Pressley, the congresswoman-elect from Massachusettss 7th District, put it so succinctly on the campaign trail earlier this year, Change cant wait. But the Democrats in Congress have to be disciplined. They should focus on advancing bills built around big-picture, long-term policy solutions rather than incremental compromises. House Democrats such as John Sarbanes of Maryland have called for a sweeping reform agenda that includes renewed defenses for voting rights, a reordered public financing system, and major changes to lobbying and corruption laws. It is true that such bills are unlikely to overcome Republican opposition in the Senate. And some moderate Democrats may not be convinced either; Representative Cheri Bustos warned a few weeks ago that reforms should be doable, focused on winning folks in the middle. But advancing ambitious proposals in a moment when real legislative change is unlikely is not actually impractical. Despite centrist unease with identity politics, the reality is that the Democrats long-term electoral coalition rests on young, multiracial constituencies, people whose politics are committed to directly addressing issues of inequality and racial justice. Recent public opinion research focusing on missing voterswho turned out for Obama but stayed home in 2016suggests that they are further to the left than traditional swing voters on major issues like health care and regulation. Big ideas will appeal to them more than some uninspired compromise that only Donald Trump could love. That might start with an economic plan focused on public goods, like Medicare for all, free college, universal access to broadband. Democrats should think of ways to protect workers in an era of precarious employment and unrivaled corporate power. Propose improvements to infrastructure and draft regulations to create more affordable housing. Draft a new Civil Rights Act that focuses on modern areas of concern with public accommodations, environmental justice, and the desegregation of cities and schools. And enfranchise citizensby restoring voting rights for former felons, as Florida did, and by passing redistricting reform, independence for Puerto Rico, and statehood for the District of Columbia. These are wildly varied plans, ambitious and aspirational, and its unlikely any of them will be signed into law, but it doesnt matter: They could shift the values within the party, and serve as trial runs for broader change in 2020 and beyond.If Democrats are smart, congresswomen like New Yorks Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Michigans Rashida Tlaib, and Minnesotas Ilhan Omar will represent the future of party leadership. Democrats have traditionally relied on norms of seniority to decide leadership positions, and all indications are that Nancy Pelosi will return as speaker. But Democrats would do better to elevate someone new who can mobilize young communities of color and argue for political ideals free of the baggage of previous decades of political conflict. None of these tactics could rightly be called a legislative agenda. But perhaps they add up to something more fundamental: a far-reaching strategy for social change. Democrats are today engaged in a struggle over ideas, and not just with the GOP and Donald Trump, but with themselves. To make a better party, and a better country, one that makes the setbacks and suffering of the past two years worthwhile, Democrats may have to lose some fights in this next Congress. Lose now, lose the right way, and the future could be theirs. 	Liberal
If Sean Casten had talked about climate change once during his campaign, that would have been more than most Democrats running for Congress. But Casten didnt talk about climate change just once, or even merely ten or twenty times, as he sought to flip Illinois 6th Congressional District from red to blue. He made it the center of his entire campaign.After years fighting climate change as an entrepreneur, Im now determined to fight it as the next member of Congress, reads Castens Twitter bio, updated to reflect his victory on Tuesday. A scientist, environmental writer, and the founder of a successful renewable energy business, Casten talked repeatedly about global warming on the campaign trail and regularly called out his opponentsix-term incumbent Republican Representative Peter Roskamfor being weak on the subject.Castens focus on climate was mostly overlooked in the widespread coverage of his five-point upset of Roskam, who once referred to climate change as junk science. But its an important factor, considering the Democratic Partys prevailing logic on the subject. Knowing that global warming can be a polarizing issue, most Democrats running in red or purple districts this year strategically avoided talking about it. They feared, according to The New York Times, that highlighting climate change risks handing conservative voters a motivating issue to turn out against them.So why didnt Casten heed that logic in Illinois 6th, given that its been in Republican hands for more than 40 years?Ive never run for any office before, Casten told me in a Friday phone interview. But what I have done is spent the last 20 years doing something about climate change. So I wasnt going to suddenly turn into a different beast on the day I ran for office. He said he didnt receive any warnings from Democratic Party officials about his campaign platform. I think its a misconception that the party controls messaging, he said. Castens professional background likely helped his case for voters, as hes proven that reducing greenhouse gas emissions can be economically profitable. The business he founded in 2007, Recycled Energy Development LLC, focuses on improving the efficiency of energy production. Ive found that, if I tried to convince people to address climate change for purely environment reasons, that was hard, he said. But running on climate change as an economic opportunity is a fantastic can-opener. The districts unique voter makeup also likely contributed to his success. As ThinkProgress noted in an August profile, Illinois 6th covers an area that includes people who work for two different national laboratories, Fermilab and Argonne National Lab. Its a very highly-educated, scientifically minded set of voters, Casten told ThinkProgress. They are people who value facts, and are generally pretty centristbipartisanin their world view.There was another reason to believe Castens message might resonate with voters: Hillary Clinton won the district in 2016. Even so, it was an undoubtedly risky strategy in trying to flip a seat held by Republicans for nearly half a century. Could it be that Democrats prevailing logic on global warmingthat talking about it is political suicideis wrong? Casten isnt sure, but he hopes so. The idea of the businesses Ive ran was that the scale of climate change was too big for one company to solvebut if we made money, maybe other people would follow, he said. So if that translates to politics, and the run-out of a six-term climate denier makes Democrats want to run on that in 2020, thatd be pretty awesome. And even if polling doesnt suggest that its a winning message, that shouldnt discourage Democrats from talking boldly about solving climate change, Casten argued. Its the governments duty to solve societal problems, even ones that much of the citizenry denies or ignoresperhaps especially those ones. This isnt a question of polling well, its a question of how do you change public opinion, Casten said. Thats what leadership isnot to follow public opinion, but to shape it.	Liberal
For over a year, Amazon dangled the prize of a second headquarters, or HQ2, in front of cities across the country, and then watched as they duked it out. The result was a sort of hypercapitalist Hunger Games, in which cities and states debased themselves in the hopes of reaping tens of thousands of jobs and several billion dollars in investment. The biggest bidders promised billions in tax breaks and subsidies, while smaller municipalities resorted to more creative measures: The mayor of Stonecrest, Georgia, offered to build a town named Amazon and to anoint CEO Jeff Bezos, the richest man alive, as its king.That competition apparently ended last week, when it was reported that Amazon had chosen the Solomon option: not one, but two additional headquarters. One would be located in the Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C., the other in Queens, New York. It was an anticlimactic end, given the expectations. But if indeed Amazon has decided to split HQ2 among two of Americas most profitable cities, the tech behemoth may exacerbate several societal problemsincluding one it claims to want to solve.The HQ2 selection process was always a racket. Often referred to as a sweepstakes, it was designed for only one winner: Amazon. The company not only garnered free, widespread publicity, but also drove up its asking price, as some competitors raised their bids by billions. Its possible that the plan all along was not to open a second headquarters, but to open two, smaller satellites. Whats unlikely, however, is that the deals being offered to Amazon will change significantly, even though the company is effectively halving their investment.Amazon has already faced backlash for its handling of HQ2. The $1 trillion company is hardly in need of public handouts, and yet it has benefited greatly from taxpayer dollars in recent years. It may have sensed there would be further backlash over its decision, which would explain why the news broke on the eve of the midterm elections, effectively burying it. Unlike other localities, which made their offers public, not much is known about the bids from New York City and Virginia. But the public scrutiny of HQ2 will only intensify as the detailsand the social consequences of HQ2become clear. The D.C. suburbs were always seen as a favorite, given that Bezos owns The Washington Post and that Amazons lobbying spending has increased dramatically in recent years. He also appears to enjoy spending time there. New York, where Bezos worked as a hedge fund manager before moving west, has been Silicon Valleys closest tech rival for some time. But there were also strong reasons not to choose either New York or D.C., since neither is desperate for economic investment or high-skilled jobs. In fact, Amazons presence may be a net negative for both places.Washington, D.C, and New York, already have tight housing markets, and will be further squeezed by an influx of highly paid, younger workers. Both cities also have decaying public transportation networks that are struggling to meet demand. HQ2 will only aggravate those problems. The 7 train is overloaded today, and we cant sell Long Island City as being transportation rich, Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer told The New York Times, referring to the Queens neighborhood where half of HQ2 would be located. The people who work at Amazon are going to be competing for space on that train.HQ2 would present problems wherever it opened, but there was a stronger case for Amazon to choose somewhere less prosperous. The economic impact of locating a new corporate campus with 20,000 highly paid jobs would be radically different in a city like Detroit, Cleveland, or Indianapolis for the simple reason that these cities have a lot of slack in their housing markets, Voxs Matt Yglesias wrote last week. Even with tax breaks, HQ2 would act as an economic stimulus for a struggling region.Activists in New York and D.C. have been mobilizing against Amazon for quite some time. A year ago, a number of New York City community groups wrote to Mayor Bill de Blasio to protest potential tax breaks:You should focus on pushing Amazon to be a better corporate citizen and improving how it treats communities and workers. You should also ensure that this multibillion-dollar company, [which] already has a significant presence in New York, does not receive financial incentives simply for doing business here. New York communities are facing massive cuts to public goods and services, and working families are trying to make ends meet.In Washington, long seen as a frontrunner, the opposition is much more organized. If D.C. does get chosen, we have some real issues with how Amazon does business, in terms of fair labor, equitable hiring, and equitable practices for people of color and women in particular, the Fair Budget Coalitions Stephanie Sneed told me back in April. Although HQ2 would be in neighboring Northern Virginia, it would have a significant impact on D.C.Amazon has been batting away bad publicity (often for its labor conditions) and government scrutiny (often on antitrust grounds) for a while nowmost recently in September, when Senator Bernie Sanders unveiled the Stop BEZOS Act. While the bill itself, designed to punish large employers whose workers received public assistance, was shoddy and misguided, its true purpose was to punish Amazon by making it the face of corporations that underpaid and mistreated its workers. In October, Amazon announced that it would raise its minimum wage to $15 and begin lobbying the federal government to raise the national minimum wage.By moving to New York and Northern Virginia, Amazon may further tighten housing markets, contributing to greater homelessness, and put more stress on failing public transportation. Seattle, where Amazon is based, has seen housing prices and homelessness skyrocket in recent yearsproblems the company certainly didnt cause, but which its certainly making worse. The crisis prompted Seattles city council to pass a tax on large employers, like Amazon, to help pay for affordable housing; the company responded by threatening to stop construction in the city. We remain very apprehensive about the future created by the councils hostile approach and rhetoric toward larger businesses, which forces us to question our growth here, Amazon vice president Drew Herdener said at the time. Ultimately, pressure from Amazon killed the tax, although Bezos announced that he would be contributing $2 billion toward combating homelessness and early education in September.Many in New York are looking at Seattle as an example of what Amazon will do to an already stretched market. Growth challenges are already familiar ones in New York City and metropolitan Washington, D.C., where once-affordable neighborhoods have morphed into upmarket enclaves, and aging and overloaded transit systems create daily headaches for their millions of riders, Margaret OMara, a historian at the University of Washington, wrote last week in The New York Times. Just as in San Francisco and Seattle, HQ2s arrival could make them far worse.Amazon likely chose Washington and New York for obvious reasons, making the pageantry surrounding the yearlong search for an HQ2 site all the more absurd. These are attractive places to work, and, as national hubs of politics and media respectively, they influence the national discussion. But theyre also among just a handful of major cities that could meet Amazons needs, in terms of infrastructure and talent. That was always true, and the company cleverly exploited it, using cities that never stood a chance to extract concessions from the few that did.Of the many places that offered themselves on a platter, only a dozen or so truly made sense for Amazon to consider, Annie Lowrey wrote last week in The Atlantic. The rest would have needed far more development for the company to justify heading theredevelopment that would excite existing businesses, would-be entrepreneurs, and companies quietly looking for a new corporate site. This regional economic inequality is unsustainable for the country at large, and yet Amazons decision suggests that it will only worsen in the years to come.There was hope among many HQ2 bidders that Amazon would be the cure to decades of problems. But its clear now that the company never intended to save a struggling American city, transforming its economy, infrastructure, and perhaps even schools; it only ever made sense, in purely capitalist terms, to choose a city that already was flourishing. The dozens of desperate bidders, from Detroit to Stonecrest, were nothing but pawns in a rigged, zero-sum game theyve been losing for decades.	Liberal
President Donald Trump makes no secret of his litmus test for an attorney general: They should be loyal to the president first, and the rule of law second. Hes invoked Robert Kennedy and Eric Holder as models for their loyalty and their purported efforts to quash politically damaging investigations. A pliant attorney general would allow the president to demolish the Justice Departments traditional independence, which Trump resents. I am not supposed to be doing the kind of things that I would love to be doing, and I am very frustrated by it, he lamented last November.From that vantage point, Matt Whitaker is perfectly suited to be the interim leader of the Justice Department, where he will oversee special counsel Robert Muellers Russia investigation. Whitaker, the U.S. attorney in Iowa from 2004 to 2009, previously served as former Attorney General Jeff Sessions chief of staff since last summer. From there, hes reportedly acted as the White Houses spy inside Sessionss office and curried favor with the presidents top aides. Trump named him acting attorney general after forcing Sessions to resign on Wednesday.The post is one of the most sensitive and powerful jobs in any presidential administration. Despite this, Trump professed ignorance on Friday about the man he had just chosen to lead the federal governments law enforcement apparatus. I dont know Matt Whitaker, he told reporters outside the White House before praising the acting attorney generals credentials. Matt Whitaker worked for Jeff Sessions, and he was always extremely highly thought of, and he still is.By any standard other than Trumps, however, Whitaker seems stupendously unqualified for the job. Previous attorneys general served as governors, senators, and federal judges before taking the post. Interim ones typically came from within the Justice Departments upper echelons. Before joining Sessionss staff last year, Whitaker worked in private practice at a small law firm, mounted a failed U.S. Senate bid in Iowa, made TV appearances as one of CNNs myriad contributors, and sat on the advisory board of a company accused by the Federal Trade Commission of running a multi-million dollar scam.So why would the president elevate Whitaker from relative obscurity to one of the most powerful posts in the federal government? After all, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein is still available to oversee the Justice Department until Trump nominatesand the Senate confirmsSessionss replacement. The answer seems to lie in the presidents hostility toward the Russia investigation, a view largely shared by Whitaker. By appointing Whitaker and supplanting Rosensteins oversight of Mueller, Trump is now well-positioned to curtail the inquiry just as it draws closer to his inner circle.Whitakers views on the investigation are well-established. Before joining Sessionss staff, he told interviewers that there was no collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and no case for obstruction of justice, wrote an op-ed that opposed scrutiny of Trumps personal finances, and downplayed the significance of Donald Trump Jr.s 2016 meeting with Russians in Trump Tower. At one point, he even floated a scenario on television to shutter the probe. I could see a scenario where Jeff Sessions is replaced, he said last July, [and] that attorney general doesnt fire Bob Mueller, but he just reduces his budget to so low that his investigations grinds to almost a halt.Trump is known for his avid TV viewing habits, and Whitakers appearances reportedly caught his attention. That may have been the entire point. John Q. Barrett, a St. Johns University law professor, recalled a friendly chat he had with the acting attorney general last year. Whitaker told me in June 2017 that he was flying out from Iowa to NYC to be on CNN regularly because he was hoping to be noticed as a Trump defender, and through that to get a Trump judicial appointment back in Iowa, he wrote on Twitter on Wednesday night.Its unclear how long Whitaker will stay in the current position. Trump is reportedly considering former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi as permanent replacements. Trump may decide to hold off on nominating someone until the new Senate is seated in January, when it is expected to have a slightly larger Republican majority. That could give him a greater margin of error to push through a controversial nominee.Until then, the questions are how much damage Whitaker wants to do to the Russia investigation, how much damage he can do, and how much damage hes willing to do. In theory, all of Muellers power flows from the acting attorney general, whoever that may be. Rosenstein established Muellers authority last May in a public memo and has augmented it since then with classified memos. As acting attorney general, Whitaker could theoretically rewrite those memos to narrow the scope of Muellers inquiry. He could also quash subpoenas, block indictments, and dismiss the special counsel entirely.Things could get complicated quickly if any of that happens. Taking any substantive moves against Mueller could invite legal challenges to Whitakers authority. Lawyers Neal Katyal and George Conway argued in The New York Times on Thursday that Whitakers appointment violates the Constitutions Appointments Clause, which requires top executive-branch officials to be approved by the Senate. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, and Conway, who was considered for a top Justice Department position by Trump, contended that Whitaker cant exercise the attorney generals powers because he didnt go through the confirmation process.Constitutionally, Matthew Whitaker is a nobody, Katyal and Conway wrote. His job as Mr. Sessionss chief of staff did not require Senate confirmation. (Yes, he was confirmed as a federal prosecutor in Iowa, in 2004, but President Trump cant cut and paste that old, lapsed confirmation to today.) For the president to install Mr. Whitaker as our chief law enforcement officer is to betray the entire structure of our charter document. (Asked about this argument on Friday, Trump derided Conway as Mr. Kellyanne Conway, referring to Conways wifewho serves as Trumps counselor.)Whitaker may ultimately turn out to be a responsible steward of the powers of which he has been temporarily vested. But his past criticism of the Russia investigation, coupled with his close ties to the White House, suggest otherwise. Everything about Whitakers appointment suggests his purpose is to rein in the Russia investigation and bring the Justice Department closer to Trumps orbit. However long Whitakers tenure lasts, his impact on the American rule of law may last much, much longer.	Liberal
In the great 1972 political satire The Candidate, Robert Redford plays a novice candidate who runs a slick campaign for Senate and wins an upset against an unbeatable incumbent. On election night, right before the media throng arrives, he turns to his campaign guru, played by Peter Boyle, and says, What do we do now? The movie ends without an answer. House Democrats are no strangers to governance; even with the influx of newcomers, they have a veteran group who have been in the majority before, many under both divided and united government. But the question of what do we do now is still a pressing one, since the dynamic in todays Washington is unlike any theyand the countryhave ever seen.Party leadership contests will come quickly, followed by the need to draft a rules package that sets out how the House will operate, from floor procedures to ethics considerations. Chairmanships of key committees and subcommittees will need to be settled. And an agenda, substantive and investigatory, should be laid out before the new House convenes on January 3. At the same time, Democrats have to prepare for the possibility of a lame-duck session in which Republicans try to do some mischief, like a resolution on the caravan, before they are pushed into the minority.Of course, they will have to begin with the Trump administration, and the business of keeping it from pushing the country closer to autocracy, extending its kleptocratic corruption and the form of government known as kakistocracy (rule by the worst). Next comes establishing an agenda and a set of messages that show Americans why they are worthy of the mantle of governance, now and for the presidential contest in 2020. The desire for generational change and new blood is understandable. But image and public presentation are only a small part of the qualities needed in a speaker. The ability to shape and carry out an agenda; to give committees and subcommittees freedom while maintaining coherence; to understand the needs, strengths, and weaknesses of the members, knowing when to push and when to back off; to have tactical and strategic skills, especially when showdowns like potential shutdowns are looming; to negotiate effectively with a president and leadership counterparts in both House and Senateall these are deeply important qualities in a speaker. Simply being young and fresh, or being able to speak to white working-class voters, or fitting demographic checklists, or being good on televisionlaudable political traits allare not attributes that alone meet the standards set by Nancy Pelosi. It is also important to make sure that there is strong leadership input into key committee and subcommittee chairmanships. The strongest membersthose who know how to advance an agenda, question witnesses, assemble crackerjack staffs, and who have intellectual heftshould be in charge of the most important committees, and there should be early and regular consultation with leaders to coordinate priorities, especially for investigations and oversight. This does not mean that party leaders would be dictating schedules and agendas; theyd simply be coordinating strategies and letting the committees and subcommittees take charge.For many decades, Congress has provided orientations for its new members. These used to be bipartisan, including a wide range of experts who taught newcomers the rules of how Congress works. After Newt Gingrichs speakership in the 1990s, they became more partisan and generally less effective. The Democrats will need a much more robust orientation for members, new and otherwise, who have never served in the majorityand the same for staff. There should also be training about how to conduct investigationstheres going to be a lot to investigatehow to do oversight, how to ask questions of witnesses, and how to use the alphabet soup of resources available to Congress, from CBO to GAO to CRS. About those rulestheyre going to change. New members are going to want Congress to evolve, as is their right. But the rules have to be fair, constructiveand practical. In a larger sense, many reformers want a return to regular order: more openness in committees and on the floor, more regularity in debate and markups, more ways to encourage actions that are bipartisan. A rules package means more than floor procedures, though. Allowing members to pool staff allowances, a rule Gingrich abolished in 1995, would help. Just as important, a new majority needs to increase staffing and budgets for both members and committees, and especially to add experienced investigators. By empowering the independent Office of Congressional Ethics and Office of Compliance, they can do better with complaints of sexual harassment or misconduct, and put much stronger limits on stockholdings and board memberships for lawmakers. And legislatively, Democrats should reestablish the Office of Technology Assessment, an important source of expert scientific information and reform. Congress may have its problems, but the real fight against corruption and autocracy is with the Trump administration. The Democrats have to pass a bill protecting Robert Mueller from Trumps efforts to fire or undermine him, and get the Democrats in the Senate to pressure the majority to take it up. Find ways to make sure there is access to any reports written by Mueller and his team. Give Adam Schiff, the incoming chair of the House Intelligence Committee, the resources to dig aggressively into Russian connections and to protect whistleblowers and the integrity of the intelligence services. Make sure Ways and Means under Chairman Richard Neal acts swiftly to gain access to Trumps tax records. Begin a process to reform the Inspector General Act, ensuring a president cannot sideline or corrupt that independent process. Change the Federal Vacancies Reform Act to prevent its misuse. Use the Committee on Appropriations under Nita Lowey to conduct tough-minded oversight of agencies and programs. Give Jerry Nadler, the incoming chair of the Judiciary Committee, the resources to examine all of Trumps actions, and those of the Justice Department. At some point, Democrats will again hold the House, Senate, and presidency. A reform agenda should include a new and improved Voting Rights Act along with actions to make voting easier, including universal voter registration and preregistration, moving Election Day to the weekend, blocking a citizenship test for federal elections that is designed to suppress votes, and requiring a paper trail for ballots. A bill to end partisan gerrymandering, and one to repeal the 1967 law that requires single-member House districts, to allow for states to experiment with multi-member districts, should be parts of it. Campaign finance reforms to encourage small donor contributions with matching funds, along with a renewed tough DISCLOSE Act, to oversee spending, round out a democracy package. A requirement that presidential candidates disclose their tax returns would also be in order.To be sure, the first priorities for Democrats are more triage than anything elsepreventing Donald Trump from further destroying the health insurance marketplace, degrading the environment, shredding the safety net, and undermining worker safety, the census, voting rights, and so on. But Democrats should also focus on what priorities the party would adopt if it did take over in 2020. Few new laws will be passed in 2019. Still, Democrats can lay down markers for the futureadjusting the Affordable Care Act to extend to more Americans and to work better; creating and protecting jobs; assuring adequate incomes for working-class Americans; implementing training programs and appropriate apprenticeships to provide skills for workers in a swiftly changing global economy; crafting a safety net appropriate for a future world where more jobs are part of the gig economy than the traditional one in which employers provided the benefits; framing a trade policy also appropriate for the new global dynamic; dealing effectively and realistically with climate change and crafting a new alternative energy approach; dealing with cybersecurity dangers; restoring net neutrality. And Democrats need a budget that reflects their values and still addresses the exploding debt crisis caused by Republicans through irresponsible tax cuts. Whatever bills pass the House, even if they go nowhere in the Senate, Democrats can highlight their plans through the creative use of the House floor. Structured debatesnot always pitting Democrats against Republicanscould show Americans that there are thoughtful and workable proposals out there, some of which are not partisan. Excerpts can go on YouTube, providing the fodder for cable news and showing the public that Democrats actually have ideas to grapple with the problems this country faces.Of course, this is a formidable set of recommendations. But a Democratic House has a formidable set of requirements to set the country right and the stage for 2020. Winning the House is not enough. Its what they do with it that matters. 	Liberal
The First World War, which ended a century ago Sunday, was supposed to be a hinge-moment in history: a war to end all wars, and a war to end the imperialism that had shaped the Wests interaction with the world for centuries. After the United States joined the war in 1917, President Wilson insisted it be fought in the cause of self-determination.But despite its massive toll, the war did not end empire, and many of todays struggles are rooted in that failure, including Americans own imperial investments in war.As the firing ceased on the Western front, conflict continued in a different gear elsewhere. During the war, the British Empire had expanded vastly into the Middle East, the former terrain of the defeated Ottoman Empire. As hostilities ceased in Europe, Britain violently suppressed rebellion in these newly occupied territories, as well as in India, Ireland, and Egypt.The British government drew on new military technologies, especially airpower, in these post-armistice counter-insurgencies, partly to convince the British public that war really had ended: Then, as now, air warfare meant fewer boots on the ground and more discreet intervention abroad. Shifting the methods of colonial intervention allowed empire to survive in an increasingly anti-imperial age.But the mass death of World War I had also shocked many Britons into fresh skepticism of military technology. Many sections of the public attacked the arms industry for having driven humanity to an apocalyptic juncture.Scandalized by the high wartime profits of arms companies like Vickersthen supplying bombers for aerial counterinsurgency in Iraqand members of parliament owning shares in such companies, critics discerned a secret international: a complex of arms firms, banks, and governments fomenting war out of greed. The Labour MP Hugh Dalton noted that the Ottomans had used Vickerss guns against the British; he condemned directors of arms firms as the highest and completest embodiment of capitalist morality. In truth, arms manufacturers had been crucial to the creation of modern capitalism: military contracting for the eighteenth-century wars that established Britains global empire helped drive the industrial revolution, though we like to celebrate that transformation as a triumph of Enlightenment values. The British also spread arms around the world, equating their spread with the spread of civilization itself. They were convinced that scruples about who they sold to would merely forfeit profit, prestige, and influence to their rivals, the French and the Dutch.  In the nineteenth century, when Britain was no longer an empire on the make, the armed native became a more threatening figure. The British began to police arms sales in the Middle East and South Asia especially. World War One redoubled this concern: The Middle East expert Mark Sykes worried that enough arms had spread to arm every black man who wants a rifle.In the 1920s and 30s, global arms conventions tried to prohibit arms exports to Africa and the Middle East, but were thwarted by loopholes and vested interestsincluding the American arms industry. The British themselves, captive to the diehard eighteenth-century logic, subsidized the military strength of two rival powers in the Arabian peninsula, including the Wahhabi-backed House of Saud, which emerged the regional victor in 1925. Some MPs worried that the Saudis would next turn their British arms against Britain as the dominant power in the region.Certain interwar observers fleetingly recognized the extent of the British economys dependence on arms manufacturing. The science-fiction writer H.G. Wells noted that the arms profits accrued not just to companies leaders, but also to workers in those industries and to thousands of persons of all ranks of life, as lesser shareholders. A 1935 government inquiry into the private manufacture of arms likewise alighted on the truth that war was central to the British economy, concluding that the line between military and civilian manufacturing was so blurry that it was impossible to say who was and wasnt making or profiting from arms. Arms and their parts were central to industry in generalas they had been since the industrial revolutionintersecting with the automobile industry, civilian aviation, and so on. Large numbers of people, of all classesby reason of their employment, their business interests or by the holding of shares, the commission reported, may have a financial interest in war or the preparation for war.  Shortly after the commission submitted its report, the Germans occupied the Rhineland, and Britain began rearming, with the approval of Labour politicians like Daltonthe First World War had taught the importance of not being adequately prepared as much as it had fomented distrust of arms-makers. As the commissioners had anticipated, intensification of arms-making had an enormous impact on the economy: Rearmament pulled Britain out of the Great Depression.We live among this geopolitical and moral detritus of the end of the First World War. Seizing the baton of global imperial power, including heavy reliance on airpower, the U.S. has long sealed its partnerships with authoritarian rulers around the world with arms sales. And once again, the Middle East is a key focus of those concerned with the spread of arms. Both Saudi Arabias role in the war and famine in Yemen and the Khashoggi affair have provoked renewed public questioning of the Saudi-U.S. partnership in particular. President Trump insists that Saudi arms deals are crucial for American workers and industrya bogus claim. The military-industrial economy is too old and wide for any one arms deal to matter significantly. As in the past, these deals are about maintaining American influence as much as money. Trump argues that if the U.S. pulls out, Russia and China will profitechoes of eighteenth-century imperial logic.Todays tech moguls emphasize the importance of defense contracts. Amazon spent millions this year lobbying for contracts for its facial recognition technology, cloud computing services, and other products. If big tech companies are going to turn their backs on the Department of Defense, we are in big trouble, said Amazons Jeff Bezos recently. Lockheed Martins sales in Saudi Arabia for 2019 and 2020, meanwhile, are in the range of $900 million. Government departments likewise consider industry outreach and relationships with potential contractors standard practices. History shows that contracting has long been a mainstay of industrial growth.But some segments of American labor are increasingly uneasy about military contracts. Within Amazon, workers are deeply concerned that the companys facial recognition technology may be used by ICE to track illegal immigrants. Hundreds have written to Bezos expressing their refusal to build a platform for government surveillance that violates human rights. Similar dynamics are unfolding at Microsoft and Google. Google employees have successfully stymied renewal of the companys controversial contract to provide artificial intelligence for analyzing drone footage.The gun control debate also fuels such moral reckoning within major companies. Blackstone and JP Morgan, which pulled out of Davos in the Desert after the Khashoggi affair, also tried to distance themselves from firearms manufacturers after the Parkland shooting. These moves have enhanced their brand appeal among many, though its doubtful they have affected the gun industry as a whole. Still, they signify a search for a new capitalist morality, echoed by Silicon Valley investors belatedly cringing at the flow of Saudi money that provided tech companies with crucial liquidity in recent years.Venky Ganesan, a partner at the technology investor Menlo Ventures, told The Washington Post last month that he sees acceptance of such money as a real moral challenge going forward. Ro Khanna, Silicon Valleys Congressman, is calling on the valley to acknowledge that Saudi activities are a slap in the face of the Enlightenment ideals at the heart of its work. (Here, again , the notion that pacific Enlightenment values drive innovation obscures the historic role of defense contracts, even in the growth of Silicon Valley.)In the Middle East, the struggle since World War I has been to shake off Western power. But in the West, the Khashoggi affair has prompted calls for fresh intervention against Saudi Arabiaa shift in one way, but still perpetuating the post-World War One sense of imperial prerogative in the region. To rethink the place of arms-making in our economy is to reinvent that foreign policy, to envision a different postcolonial world.Much like the arms critics that emerged a century ago from the wreckage of World War I, the gun control movement and the recent criticism of Americas enabling of Saudi horrors are asking us to try again to navigate towards a different economic morality. If government contracts remain essential to industry, might we reach for a world in which governments contract for something other than surveillance and military technologies?Major arms contractors of the pastRemington, Le Creuzot, Vickersat some point also manufactured other goods: typewriters, farm implements, electric shavers, bicycles, sewing machines, speedboats, rail material. After World War One, defeat forced the German arms-maker Krupp to turn swords into ploughshares by making typewriters, surgical instruments, household pipes, and cinematograph machines. As we face environmental devastation, welfare rather than warfare contracts might offer a way forward; ploughshares are actually more crucial to security than arms.It may not be possible to moralize capitalism without changing it into something else, and theres no guarantee of an easy solution. When guilt compelled the fictional arms-maker Tony Stark to quit arms-making, he wound up weaponizing himself, giving us Ironman. But what kind of story would it be if Tony Stark had done nothing at all? The first step towards change is always to try to imagine another way forward.The Enlightenment thinker Adam Smith gave us the mythic ideal of pacific economic transformation. He also offered advice on managing the moral qualms of modern capitalism: He prescribed restraint in sympathy, blocking out of miseries we never saw, limiting our sympathies to the immediate, visible effects of capitalism, lest our guilt become paralyzing. Yemen has long remained beyond many Americans moral awareness. But Khashoggi, who wrote for The Washington Postowned  by Jeff Bezos--was not. His killing broke the Smithian dam against American empathy for victims of the American-backed Saudi regime. Front-page features on the Saudi horrors in Yemen have followed.The 1935 Royal Commission explored the idea of nationalizing the arms industry, to neutralize it. Ultimately, the commission concluded it wasnt possible: the arms industry was so interconnected to other industries that it would mean nationalizing the entire economy. The reality was that British society as a whole was implicated in arms production, despite critics focus on the villainy of directors of arms firms. As we commemorate the end of the First World War, more aware of our collective complicity in violence, we might try to more effectively revisit the lost causes embraced by those grieving survivors: the end of war and empire, and the end of the arms-manufacturing that gives life to both. 	Liberal
Donald Trumps 2016 presidential campaign scrambled the electoral map, as he won several states that some considered reliably, even irrevocably, blue. This weeks midterms, blue wave or not, reversed some of those unexpected gains. While Republican candidates held the line in Ohio and apparently squeaked out narrow victories in Florida, voters turned leftward in three key states in the Upper Midwest. Some political observers now see a map thats favorable to Democrats as they seek to topple Trump in two years. If Trump has lost the benefit of the doubt from voters in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan, he may not have so much of an Electoral College advantage in 2020, election guru Nate Silver wrote on Thursday. New York magazines Gabriel Debenedetti pointed to resounding Democratic victories in some former purple states as a positive sign for Democrats: Its now hard to see how Virginia or Colorado, traditional swing states, begin 2020 anywhere but in the blue column, with Nevada leaning that way, too.Whats striking about both analyses, each written by sharp and well-informed observers, is the absence of discussion about the potential impact of voter suppression. While Americans will decide which presidential candidate to support based on the economy, immigration, and other issues, its increasingly clear that state election laws and rules will govern whether they can translate those decisions into actual votes. From Ohio to Georgia, Republicans have sought to constrain the electorate to their benefit. If they do so in several key states over the next two years, it may well decide the 2020 election.Trump loves to talk about his Electoral College landslide, partly because it obscures his shellacking in the national popular vote and partly because it was a genuinely impressive victory. His path to the White House effectively ran through five statesFlorida, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsinthough he did not need to win them all. Pennsylvania, Florida, and just one more would have sufficed. Clinton, meanwhile, could have lost Florida and still won, narrowly, by taking Pennsylvania and Ohio.Instead, Trump won all five states and sailed into the White House with 306 electoral votes. Can he do it again in 2020? Trump has defied the odds before, but running the board in the Great Lakes region will be even harder the second time around. In 2016, Trump won by extraordinary close margins in three of the five key states: 10,704 votes in Michigan, 44,292 votes in Pennsylvania, and 22,748 votes in Wisconsin. Thanks to Americas peculiar system, a presidential election in which 138 million people cast their ballots came down to fewer than 78,000 voters in three states.Theres evidence that voter-suppression laws may have helped tip the balance towards Trump. Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, who was ousted by voters on Tuesday, oversaw a series of changes that structurally tilted the states electoral contests toward Republicans. Shortly after taking power in 2011, Walker and state Republican leaders oversaw a gerrymandering process that ensured the GOP could win two-thirds of the state legislatures seats even if they only won a majority of the total vote. He also signed a bill in 2015 that dismantled the states nonpartisan ethics and elections commission and replaced it with two commissions staffed by political appointees.Walkers most decisive legislation was a voter ID law passed in 2011, which required voters to present a government-issued photo identification when casting a ballot. Federal judges blocked the law from going into effect for years, citing the disproportionate impact it would have on black voters who often lacked the necessary IDs. When it went into force during the 2016 election, however, it appeared to have a critical impact, as Mother Jones Ari Berman reported:After the election, registered voters in Milwaukee County and Madisons Dane County were surveyed about why they didnt cast a ballot. Eleven percent cited the voter ID law and said they didnt have an acceptable ID; of those, more than half said the law was the main reason they didnt vote.... [T]hat finding implies that between 12,000 and 23,000 registered voters in Madison and Milwaukeeand as many as 45,000 statewidewere deterred from voting by the ID law.In two of the five key states, voting rights are relatively secure. Republicans in Pennsylvania passed a voter ID law in 2012, but state judges blocked its implementation two years later. (The states supreme court also won a showdown with state GOP lawmakers, striking down gerrymandered maps in favor of more balanced ones earlier this year.) Voters in Michigan, meanwhile, passed a measure on Tuesday that will enact automatic voter registration, same-day voter registration, and no-excuse absentee ballots. Democratic control of the state governorships in both states makes it unlikely that Republicans will pass new restrictions before 2020.The same cant be said for the two major perennial swing states on the list. Ohio Republicans won big on Tuesday at all levels, save for a U.S. Senate seat successfully defended by incumbent Democrat Sherrod Brown. The defeats of gubernatorial contender Richard Cordray and secretary of state candidate Kathleen Clyde leave Democrats with scant influence over the states election laws headed into 2020. Clydes loss in particular is stinging: As a state lawmaker, she championed reforms like automatic voter registration and opposed Republican efforts to impose new restrictions.Ohio has a reputation for stringent measures aimed at its own electorate. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court narrowly upheld Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husteds controversial purge of the states voter rolls. The state purged more than two million voters from its rolls between 2011 and 2016, removing voters who had died or moved as well as thousands who had simply not cast a ballot in recent elections and failed to return a notice. Ohio lawmakers also passed strict voter ID laws, which the courts blocked, and sharply cut early voting access, which the courts didnt.In Florida, where Republicans have controlled the levers of power for a quarter-century, restrictive voting laws are a persistent threat. In 2012, under Governor Rick Scott, state officials brawled with the federal government over a campaign to remove suspected noncitizens from the states voter rolls by using flawed data that disproportionately targeted nonwhite voters. He imposed new barriers on Floridians who sought to regain their voting rights after completing their sentenceschanges that favored white and Republican applicants over those from other backgrounds. In 2011, he signed a controversial law that cut early voting days in half and made it harder for third-party groups to register new voters. Will Republican governor-elect Ron DeSantis, assuming he survives a potential recount, pick up where Scott left off? Republicans often justify strict voter laws by pointing to the illusory threat of voter fraud. In many cases, however, we know that the real motives are more sinister. Former Florida GOP officials, including former Governor Charlie Crist and former party chairman Jim Greer, admitted to the Palm Beach Post in 2012 that state lawmakers used voter fraud as an excuse to pass laws that would make it harder for Democratic voters to cast a ballot. Republican officials elsewhere have given up the game from time to time: The leader of Pennsylvanias state House predicted in 2012 that the states voter ID law would help Mitt Romney win there over Barack Obama, while Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel openly credited their version with electing Trump in 2016.In a healthy democracy, there would be no need to worry about whether the 2020 election will reflect the will of the American people. Thanks to the Supreme Courts recent aversion to protecting voting rights, and a decade of manipulation by state GOP officials, that basic principle cant be guaranteed. One party is trying to win elections, and the other is trying to make winning impossible for anyone else.	Liberal
Last night, more than 100 protesters occupied the downtown Santa Monica offices of The Blackstone Group, a real estate and private equity giant that spent millions of dollars to defeat a ballot measure on Tuesday to expand the ability of localities across California to enact rent control. Standing under a banner reading Governor Newsom Dont Let Blackstone Hijack Our Communities, one tenant said she had to fight an unjust eviction by her landlord Invitation Homes, a subsidiary of Blackstone. Prop 10 didnt fail because the problem isnt real or because voters dont support rent control, she said. Rather it failed because of harsh attacks by Blackstone and other landlord groups against renters, including threatening them with eviction.On a mixed Election Night for progressives, the fight for rent control in California hit a roadblock when Proposition 10 lost by more than 20 percentage points. Prop 10 would have repealed the Costa-Hawkins Rental Housing Act, a state law prohibiting cities from enacting rent control on buildings constructed after 1995 (or earlier in some cities).To those who have been watching the fight for Prop 10, the defeat came as little surprise. The corporate landlord industry ran a campaign of lies and deception and put $80 million behind it, said Amy Schur of the Alliance of Californians for Community Empowerment (ACCE), one of the organizations that led the Yes campaign on Prop 10. A majority of voters in California support rent control but the opposition managed to sow tremendous confusion.  As I reported in a previous piece for The New Republic, the opposition campaign was bankrolled directly by the biggest real estate groups in the country. By the end, these groups and their supporters doled out over $76 million, outspending the Yes campaign three to one. The landlord lobbys massive ad campaign was accompanied, in the final weeks, by direct voter manipulation: Renters across the state received notification of rent hikes or eviction from landlords who explicitly cited Prop 10 as the reason, with some promising to drop the threats if the measure failed. Big spending has long governed the ballot measure process in California. In 2005, a proposition to provide drug discounts to low-income Californians was defeated after pharmaceutical companies spent more than $118 million on opposition. The next year, a proposition to reduce petroleum consumption was defeated after energy producers funneled over $94 million into campaign efforts. Big money appears particularly dexterous at confusing voters facing ballot measures because those measures can be confusing to begin withoften designed to set the stage for future policymaking rather than to enact clear or immediate change.The effect of the Prop 10 money was glaring: While only 38 percent of voters cast their votes in favor of Prop 10, a 2017 poll by the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, found that 60 percent of likely voters in the state support rent control. I cant tell you how many times I heard people say, You vote no on 10 if you like rent control right? said Shanti Singh of the California renters rights organization Tenants Together. Tony Samara of Urban Habitat, a grassroots advocacy organization for low-income communities of color in the Bay Area, said that, due to the real estate lobbys deception, there isnt any way you can say that Prop 10 was a referendum on rent control.The election wasnt a total loss for affordable housing in California: Proposition 1, which will dedicate $4 billion in state bonds towards existing affordable housing programs, including the construction of new units for low-income residents, veterans, and farmworkers, secured a definitive win. Proposition 2 also passed, funneling $2 billion in state revenue into homelessness prevention housing. While the fight over Prop 10 was intense, these two passed with little effort: Just over $4 million was spent to support them in the face of negligible opposition. According to Peter Cohen, co-director of San Franciscos Council of Community Housing Organizations, campaigning for Props 1 and 2 in San Franciscowas like handing out candy. They are such low-hanging fruit you dont even really need to talk about them. Indeed, Props 1 and 2 drew support from across the political spectrum. While landlord groups were busy pummeling Prop 10 with one hand, they supported the bond measures with the other. According to campaign filings, Essex Property Trust, one of the biggest funders of No On Prop 10, gave $150,000 to the two propositions. Another rent control assailant, Equity Residential, gave $75,000. Measures to support affordable housing bonds also passed overwhelmingly in Austin, Portland, and Charlotte, all with support from real estate groups, which benefit from the influx of new property: These bonds dip into state funds rather than relying on new taxes or regulations.Affordable housing advocates agree that the bond measures are a necessary and positive step, but say that theyll only go so far, since they largely serve to increase housing supply without protecting existing residents or long-term affordability. Everybodys so into this whole supply, supply, supply argument, said Cohen. We need it all, from more money for brick and mortar to protections for tenants. And construction is too slow to make up for decades of insufficient building. Out of the 1,388 units planned for construction with $310 million from a housing bond passed by the City of San Francisco in 2015, only 33 units have been constructed so far, and many of the units are only 10-15 percent to completion. In other words, if real estate groups continue to dictate solutions to an affordable housing crisis in cities across the country, there is little hope of solving it anytime soon. Tenant protections like Prop 10 drive right at the heart of the failure of the for-profit market, said Samara of Urban Habitat. [Prop 10] is a direct intervention into that failure.Housing advocates say the very terms of the debate have to change, away from the industrys emphasis on keeping the housing market free from onerous regulation. Theres an idea that theres this unregulated housing market, explained Shamus Roller of the National Housing Law Project. But this isnt the housing market that Adam Smith imagined. We have zoning codes and building codesits one of the most regulated in the country, and right now most of those regulations benefit people who already own homes and have wealth.Changing the conversation in this way is a big lift, and all the more so because it falls entirely on the shoulders of those at the state and local levels. Tenant protections have long been sidelined at the national level, even by the strongest affordable housing advocates. For example, Senator Elizabeth Warrens housing plan, the most progressive housing plan proposed in the Senate in decades, makes no mention of rent control, instead focusing on subsidizing new affordable units.Despite this, California voters know the market isnt working for them: More than 54 percent of renters in the state spend more than 30 percent of their income on housing. A USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times survey before the election found that just 13 percent of eligible California voters believe that too little home building is a primary contributor to the states affordability issues. Lack of rent control was at the top of the list, with 28 percent.And that number would likely be higher in a follow-up survey, particularly now that a spotlight has been put on the manipulative role played by real estate groups in the referendum. In October, two weeks before the election, The Guardian reported that Blackstone was using money from real estate investments funded by California public employees and the state university system to pay for its Prop 10 opposition campaign. This campaign has helped expose the growing role of Wall Street in our housing in California and the role of groups like Blackstone that had been under the radar, said Schur of ACCE. The housing justice movement has grown by leaps and bounds through this campaign.And even as the flaws of the ballot measure process were exposed, its history also offers a source of hope: Many significant measures passed through the ballot were defeated on their first try. An initiative to soften and repeal some parts of the states infamous three strikes law narrowly lost in 2004 but passed in 2012. Marijuana legalization was defeated in 2010 but passed in 2016. The first time it appeared on the ballot, according to Mark Baldassare, CEO of the Public Policy Institute of California, people were hearing mixed messages on marijuana legalization. But the next time around, there were less questions about it, more trusted sources of support, and public opinion had shifted because of what was going on in other states, he said. Marijuana legalization ultimately passed by nearly 15 percentage points.As the housing crisis intensifies, and as the call for rent control spreads, a 2020 ballot might turn up different results. But rent control advocates arent waiting for 2020. Theyre launching local fights in cities across the state. Until three years ago, it was unheard of to put rent control on local ballots, said Singh. In Oakland on Tuesday, voters approved a measure to close eviction loopholes, and in Alameda, voters defeated a real-estate industry measure to preempt local rent control efforts. Sacramento has already confirmed a spot on the 2020 ballot for a rent control measure. Singh says that these local measures are crucial for the success of the statewide movement: When you pass local measures, you build crucial infrastructure, like tenants unions who know their rights.Perhaps equally important, passing local measures builds knowledge among tenants of the rights they dont have. Under Costa-Hawkins, any rent-controlled units will be subject to vacancy decontrol, which permits landlords to raise rents on an apartment after the previous tenants leave. When you pass more local rent control ordinances, more people are going to run into the brutal reality of Costa-Hawkins, explained Singh.Local rent control efforts are also mounting pressure on state officials, like Governor-elect Gavin Newsom, to push rent control through by more expedient means than a ballot initiative. When tenant advocates urged the state assembly to consider repealing Costa Hawkins this past January, it failed to get the votes necessary to move out of committee. But today, Schur said, there are dozens of elected officials who have come out in support of it.And, in the weeks leading up to the election, Newsom pledged, despite his opposition to Prop 10, to take responsibility to address the issue. The meaning of this pledge remains ambiguous, and a bill passed through the Assembly might be weaker than Prop 10, but the pressure to take action is undeniable. We forced decision-makers to take sides, said Schur. Are you standing with the 17 million renters of California or are you standing with big landlords? 	Liberal
On Wednesday, President Donald Trump spent his first press conference after a midterm rebuke ranting about the media. He said CNN should be ashamed of itself for its coverage of his administration and that reporter Jim Acosta was a rude, terrible person. He shouted at reporter April Ryan and told her to sit down. He blamed losses in the House of Representatives on Republicans who didnt embrace him, like Utahs Mia Love, but refused to accept any responsibility for the dozens of House seats that were lost. Then, a few hours later, he fired Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Mitt Romney, meanwhile, was singing. Literally.This campaign has been quite the ride. Thank you, Utah. pic.twitter.com/2vTxInB7byDriving down the highway, singing a Johnny Cash song, seemingly without a care in the world: Romney was having a pretty good day. He had just easily won election to the U.S. Senate, replacing Orrin Hatch. After spending much of 2016 sparring with Trumpincluding a blistering speech in which Romney declared him unfit for officethe two had seemingly come to a truce. During the campaign, Romney largely steered clear of Trump, and Trump largely steered clear of Romney.No doubt, the newly minted junior senator from Utah would like to continue this dynamic. But that is unlikely to happen. As a representative of a red state that is more skeptical of Trump than most, and the biggest political star to enter the Senate since Hillary Clinton in 2000, Romney will be pressed repeatedly to comment on the Trump tweets, rants, and policy improvisations of the day.The question facing Romney as he heads to Washington isnt just how hell get along with Trump, but what his relationship with the president will say about who he is as a politician. With the exception of his 2016 speech against Trump, Romney has hardly been a model of political courage. But with the Senate losing its leading Republican critics of TrumpBob Corker and Jeff Flakethere will be enormous pressure for him to take up their mantle.Speaking on March 3, 2016, shortly after Donald Trump had become the presumptive Republican nominee for president, Romney held a press conference. Let me put it very plainly, Romney said. If we Republicans choose Donald Trump as our nominee, the prospects for a safe and prosperous future are greatly diminished. Romneys speech carried two distinct attacks. The first was that Trump was incapable of governing the country. Trump has neither the temperament nor the judgment to be president, Romney said, describing Trump as a bully, liar, cheater, and philanderer. These failures of character, as Romney told it, were connected to the campaigns policy failures and showed his unseriousness as a presidential candidate. Trumps bankrupt character, Romney argued, would cause crises in American foreign and domestic policy alike.The second line of attack was that Trump was not a real Republican. I believe with all my heart and soul that we face another time for choosing, one that will have profound consequences for the Republican Party, and more importantly, for our country, he said near the beginning of the speech. He said Trumps economic plans would create a prolonged recession, and his proposed tariffs would instigate a trade war and that would raise prices for consumers, kill our export jobs and lead entrepreneurs and businesses of all stripes to flee America. His tax plan, in combination with his refusal to reform entitlements and honestly address spending, would balloon the deficit and the national debt.This was always an underappreciated element of Romneys critique of Trump: that he was not sufficiently conservative. Note that one of Romneys principle concerns was Trumps pledge to honor Medicare and Social Securitya pledge that almost certainly helped propel him to victorywhich he believes would balloon the deficit. Romney was undoubtedly worried about Trumps character, but he was also concerned about the damage his candidacy was doing to the kind of doctrinaire conservatism that Romney espoused.These are remarkably similar, if more pointed, arguments to the ones that Jeff Flake has made again and again over the past two years, particularly in Conscience of a Conservative. In that book, Flake argued that Republicans struck a Faustian bargain with Trump that would come to haunt them by undoing everything that the conservative movement, from Barry Goldwater to Ronald Reagan, stood for. Flake sees Trump as an Orwellian figure, a pathologically untruthful authoritarian who is undoing everything that America, and especially conservative America, stands for.After Trump won the presidency, he appeared to dangle the job of secretary of state before Romney. Perhaps eager to join The Committee to Save America, Romney changed his tune. The charade resulted in a private dinner at the end of November and one humiliating photograph, which has since become a meme.*record scratch* *freeze frame*Yup, that's me. You're probably wondering how I ended up in this situation ... pic.twitter.com/VC9XZblMGYTrump never offered him the job, and likely just wanted him to grovel. Later, Trump confidante Roger Stone bragged that the president-elect was interviewing Romney in order to torture him. If there was bad blood, Romney let it slide. During his run for Senate, he largely stayed out of national politics, coasting to victory on the back of endorsements from Hatch, the senator he was replacing, and Trump himself. Romney won the Republican primary with 71 percent of the vote, and cruised to victory on Tuesday with 59 percent.But now that Romney is finally headed to Washington, after hoping to arrive there six years ago as president-elect, his days of flying under the radar are over. His every tweet and utterance will be scrutinized like never before, and he seems to recognize this already. He was among a handful of Republicans who spoke out about the future of the Mueller probe after Attorney General Jeff Sessions was forced to resign on Wednesday.I want to thank Jeff Sessions for his service to our country as Attorney General. Under Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, it is imperative that the important work of the Justice Department continues, and that the Mueller investigation proceeds to its conclusion unimpeded.Fittingly, so did Jeff Flake:Earlier this year, we passed S.2644, the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, out of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The bill would safeguard Robert Muellers investigation. Leader McConnell should bring the bill to the Senate floor as soon as possibleThey were joined by senators Susan Collins and Lamar Alexander. A week earlier, Flake and Romney also both made headlines by condemning Trumps labeling of the media as the enemy of the people.Romney will find himself in a similar position as Flake, who announced his retirement from the Senate last year. Like Flake, he will be made uncomfortable by the presidents demagoguery, and will likely feel the need to speak out against it. Facing little competition, he may becomeor at least be seen asthe moral compass and conscience of Republicans in Congress.Romney will also likely cast himself as the protector of an older strain of conservatism, and that will ultimately limit his efficacy, just as it did to Flake. As president, Trump has calmed conservatives fears by embracing policies that Paul Ryan and Mitt Romney have advocated for yearstax cuts, de-regulation, far-right judges, and, yes, entitlement reform. Flake voted with Trump regularly, and Romney surely will, too.The objections to Trump, then, will be largely aestheticwith a few exceptions. Like Flake, Romney is a free-trader who loathes tariffs. Flake threatened to stop confirming judges if Trump didnt back down from his trade war. That would be an interesting threat from Romney, but he has much less leverage, given Republican gains in the Senate, expanding a slim 51-49 majority by several seats. On immigration, however, Romney is to the right of Flakeand even claims to be to the right of Trump on the issue, saying he will likely fall in line behind Trumps militaristic immigration policy.Its possible that Romney will be Flake 2.0not only criticizing Trump, but backing up his talk with action. Its also possible hell become the next Lindsey Graham, a Never Trump senator who has become one of the presidents biggest boosters. That both paths are imaginable says a lot about Romney. He has always been a shapeshifter, proudly veering between New England Republicanism and extreme conservatism, depending on the political winds of the time. Most likely, he will try to thread the needle, calling out Trump when his GOP colleagues wont, but supporting Trumps most consequential policies. He may even become the face of Trumpism without Trump.	Liberal
Ten years ago, environmental disaster struck Kingston, Tennessee. A dike containing massive amounts of coal waste burst, releasing 1.1 billion gallons of the heavy-metal sludge onto land and into waterways. It was the largest spill of coal ash slurrya mixture of coal-burning byproduct and waterin United States history. The cleanup at the Kingston Fossil Plant took seven years.Today, 30 of the laborers involved in the cleanup are dead. More than 250 are still sick. This isnt a coincidence, they argue. The contractor they all worked for, Jacobs Engineering, lied about the toxicity of coal ash, refused to provide them protective gear, threatened to fire them if they brought their own, [and] manipulated toxicity test results, according to the workers lawsuit against the company. On Wednesday, a federal jury ruled in the workers favor, finding that Jacobs Engineering failed to exercise reasonable care in keeping workers safe and, in its failures, likely caused the poisoning by coal ash of the laborers, the Knoxville News-Sentinel reported. The verdict means the plaintiffs can seek monetary damages to cover medical testing and treatment of everyone who worked on the cleanup.This is an important victory for those laborers and their families, albeit too late for some of them. But it also should serve as a warning to all Americans. The Trump administration is in the process of weakening the very regulations on coal ash that were put in place as a response to the spill in East Tennessee. When power plants burn coal for energy, it creates coal ash. The waste typically contains a variety of heavy metals, anything from arsenic to selenium to chromium, depending on where the coal was mined. Exposure is therefore considered harmful to human health. Of the 110 million tons of coal ash produced in the U.S. every year, about half is recycled into construction materials. The rest is generally combined with water thats stored in aging dikes and ponds.The Obama administration proposed the first-ever federal regulations on coal ash in 2014. Finalized in 2015, the rule required all utilities to implement plans to control fugitive dust, the type of airborne coal ash that the Kingston cleanup workers were exposed to. It also imposed new safety requirements on new coal ash storage ponds and required some old ponds to close.Under Trump, the Environmental Protection Agency has loosened those regulations. In July, shortly after Andrew Wheeler became the EPAs acting administrator, the agency finalized rulemaking that will allow coal ash impoundments that are at risk for leaksincluding ones within five feet of groundwater or in wetlands or seismic zonesto continue operating beyond April 2019, when they were slated to close, The Washington Post reported. Instead, they may remain open under the new rule until October 2020. The new rule will also empower states to suspend groundwater monitoring in certain cases and allow state officials to certify whether utilities facilities meet adequate standards, the Post wrote.The EPA is also crafting another rule to prescribe how coal ash can be recycled and reused for construction material. Like most EPA observers, Earthjustice attorney Lisa Evans expects that restrictions on the practice will be loosened. She hopes, however, that the coal ash cleanup workers case might give the agency some pause. Recycling coal ash for construction material is exactly the type of project that can create dangerous dust, she said. Wheeler being a former coal lobbyist, and Trump being Trump, its highly unlikely that the EPA will have a sudden change of heart when it comes to regulating coal ash. But Evans said she hopes the Kingston case raises public awareness of the dangers of loose regulations. Negligence may have caused the workers exposure, but an old storage pond caused the spill in the first place. Its not realistic to protect people one lawsuit at a time, she said. Lawsuits mean harm has already been caused. We want to make sure requirements are in place to prevent harm in the future.	Liberal
On Saturday, November 3, three days before the midterms, 200 volunteers gathered in Modena, New York, to canvass for Antonio Delgado, an African American lawyer and first-time congressional candidate. A local field staffer, a cheery young man named Todd, told me that so many people had shown up around the district to help Delgado unseat incumbent Republican John Faso that the campaign was able to knock on 65,000 doors that day, nearly the same number of votes cast in the district during the last midterm election. The next day, Delgados supporters hit another 50,000a small part of a massive surge in organizing that took place across the country. On Tuesday, Delgado was elected in a Democratic wave that (nearly) achieved the scale the party had hoped for. The wave crested in formerly Republican-leaning House districts all over the country, lifting first-time candidates like Abigail Spanberger in Virginia, Mikie Sherrill in New Jersey, and Kendra Horn in Oklahoma, and ultimately delivering the House to Democrats for the first time since 2010. It wrested seven governorships from Republicans, and while the wave wasnt big enough to lift Andrew Gillum in Florida or Beto ORourke in Texas, they demonstrated unexpected strength in their campaigns. There will be many explanations for these victories, but the sheer size of the volunteerism was clearly a deciding factor. The mobilization was not merely unprecedented for a midterm; it reached levels typically seen only in a presidential year. More important, activists developed new and different approaches to mobilizing the volunteers who were phone banking and knocking on doors this fall. Traditionally, most electoral organizing has been run through campaign committees that command powerful lists of millions of activists, donors, and volunteers. (Barack Obama, for example, had 13 million names, 3.95 million donors, and 35,000 volunteer groups on his 2008 list.) That model was already breaking down in 2016, with outside groups like Color of Change, Feel the Bern, and 350.org operating independently of the Democratic establishment. Two years later, however, liberal organizing has now spread out to dozens of independent national groups and thousands of local ones, most of them completely new and not directly connected to the party. It didnt have to be this way. Barack Obamas field operation in 2008 was the best in a generation, but at its root, it was still conventional, an army commanded by field generals who closely managed its actions. Although the arrangement gave the Obama campaign highly effective control, it meant that when he was elected, his former campaign manager, David Plouffe, could mothball the entire apparatus, folding Organizing for America, and its 13-million-member email list, into the Democratic National Committee as a fully controlled subsidiarya choice that sapped grassroots energy from the Democratic Party and contributed to its losing 968 state legislative seats over the next eight years. After the disaster of Trumps election, there was no organizing structure in place to come rescue the party. Into that vacuum came a new cohort of activists. To begin with, older women and younger but more experienced Democratic campaign staffers launched Indivisible. From a Google Doc started by a group of young congressional aides, it spawned 6,000 local chapters (at least two in every congressional district). The Womens March prompted the launch of thousands of local huddles. And soon, a long list of new groups emerged to direct campaign knowledge, data, and resources wherever they were most needed. The most notable aspect of Democratic midterm organizing in 2018 was that it operated without any central command. It was more like a swarm than an army, surging to places that traditional Democratic consultants never bothered to go. In Texas, Beto ORourkes Senate campaign, which nearly brought the first statewide win to a Democrat there since 1990, hired people like Bernie Sanderss deputy digital director, Zack Malitz, and built a large paid staff of 800, focusing on one main goal: a massive, decentralized base of volunteers. At the end of October, the ORourke campaign reported that its supporters had made 19 million phone calls to Texas voters, and sent more than one million texts each day. Nationally, Democrats were sending so many texts that Ann Lewis, MoveOns chief technology officer, has said that countrywide cellular networks were overloaded. On the weekend before Election Day, MiniVAN, an app Democratic canvassers use to keep track of their interactions with voters, was trending on the Apple stores top ten list. The fundraising landscape has also become more decentralized, even as billionaire megadonors like former New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg and Tom Steyer spent heavily on the election. ActBluea Democratic online fundraising platform that allows people to send small donations to a wide range of candidates or causes, not just ones prioritized by the national leadershipprocessed a record 7.7 million donations between July and September, and the $385 million raised on the platform was almost five times the amount collected during the same period in the last midterms. Data for Progressa small think tank co-founded recently by Sean McElwee, a New York journalist best known for coining the Abolish ICE sloganworked with Run for Something and FutureNowUSA (two other new groups) to create Give Smart lists of strategic state legislative races where Democrats might be able to pick key seats to tip control of a chamber. Over a few days in October, following a few tweets from @DataProgress, some $750,000 flowed to the accounts of candidates who had previously been operating on small budgets. Volunteers poured in, too. On the day before the election, Mobilize America, a new clearinghouse for volunteer organizing that was used by nearly 500 campaigns this cycle, reported that 370,000 volunteers had used its platform to sign up for 737,000 shifts over the course of the cycle, nearly half to canvass. (The real level of engagement was likely considerably higher, as many people brought a friend or took on an extra shift.) All told, according to organizations like Movement Voter Project, which raised more than $12 million for over 350 local groups, and Action Together Network, which connects more than 800 leaders across every state, the number of volunteers mobilized over the last 18 months exceeded two million peoplenearly matching Obamas 2.2 million in 2012. The left, in short, has rebuilt the muscle he let crumble after his first campaign. That most of these new groups stand outside the main party structures is significant. No politician or campaign operative can control or dismantle them. That, in and of itself, is a major development, especially for the left, which has struggled to get a foothold within the Democratic establishment. Two years ago, most of these groups didnt even exist. And yet this cycle, they were able to mobilize millions of previously disengaged voters and train thousands mostly on their own steam. That can only bode well for 2020. Its possible, of course, that some of the energy of the new groups will fade after the midterms. But having experienced a degree of success, these organizers are unlikely to disappear entirely, and will keep pulling the Democrats forward in ways that cant yet be predicted. 	Liberal
Scott Walker thought he had cracked the code. You divide and conquer, he famously told a major right-wing donor, days before beginning his first term as Wisconsins governor. If he could break the public employee unions, who funded Democratic candidates in his state, Republicans would never lose an election again. Hed be free to reward friends and punish enemies until he got sick of winning.For a while, Walker was right. He won three elections in four years, including a bruising recall. Wisconsin was the ideological laboratory of conservative dreams. But then Walker got greedy. Not content to simply do the bidding of corporate interests through low tax rates and deregulation, he embarked on one of the biggest economic disasters in recent history. After Tuesdays elections, we can say it was one of the biggest political ones as well. In July 2017, Walker inked a deal with Foxconn, the Taiwanese manufacturer known for being so punishing to its workers that it had to install nets to prevent suicides.* Foxconn would build a state-of-the-art manufacturing plant in Mount Pleasant, Wisconsin, producing LCD screens for large-panel televisionsa first for North America. The company claimed this would create 13,000 good-paying jobs and $10 billion in investment. In exchange, Walker offered $3 billion in state subsidies.The Foxconn campus will be large enough to hold 11 Lambeau Fields, Walker gushed when announcing the agreement. His approval ratings had sagged after a lackluster presidential run, and he had failed to keep his first-term promise of creating 250,000 new jobs. The Foxconn deal would be the capstone of his tenure, a public-private partnership to create a high-tech hub in the upper Midwesta real legacy item. Instead, the deal was just a way to flush out taxpayer money, without getting much from Foxconn in return. Walker was nothing but a bagman for a coordinated hit on Wisconsins treasury, and he paid for it. On Tuesday, he ran into a little-understood fact of modern political life: corporate welfare is deeply unpopular.The $3 billion subsidy to Foxconn quickly grew to over $4.5 billion, including local government tax abatements, new roads to connect to the plant, and a ratepayer-funded power transmission line. Since Wisconsin already exempts manufacturing companies from paying taxes, Dan Kaufman wrote at The New Yorker, Foxconn, which generated a hundred and fifty-eight billion dollars in revenue last year, will receive much of this subsidy in direct cash payments from taxpayers. About $1 billion in subsidies will be paid regardless of whether Foxconn builds anything at all. At the same time, Foxconn, famous for backing out of promises made around the world, radically changed the type of plant they would construct, from big-screen TV panels to panels about half the size. That would reduce investment to about one-quarter of the $10 billion initially planned, and cut assembly-line workers to only 10 percent of the total personnel, according to an interview with Foxconn spokesperson Louis Woo in August. Most assembly work would be done by robots. Those forgotten men and women, the laid-off Midwestern factory workers looking for a new career, Foxconn isnt hiring. The plant would now be staffed, Foxconn said, with knowledge workers devising new uses for the glass panels. And just this week, The Wall Street Journal let slip that Foxconn is considering bringing in personnel from China to staff those knowledge jobs, citing difficulties in finding skilled labor. In the same article, Foxconn said they would ultimately hire 13,000 employees. But The New Yorkers Kaufman pegged the new cost per job as high as $1 million. Thats not all. Special grants from the Environmental Protection Agency exempted pollution limits at the plant, which will utilize several hazardous chemicals. The state cleared the way to dump waste runoff into wetlands. The Wisconsin legislature essentially turned over the court system to Foxconn, giving it a special appeals process direct to the conservative-leaning state supreme court. Eminent domain was used aggressively to push residents off the proposed site. So everyone in Wisconsin had a reason to seethe about Foxconn: environmentalists, homeowners, workers, taxpayers, you name it. The deal never had high approval ratings, and it became a lead weight around Walkers re-election. On Tuesday, state school superintendent Tony Evers bested Walker by about 31,000 votes. Walkers failure has many causes, including the mobilization of working-class voters in Milwaukee by groups like Fight for $15. But given such a narrow victory, Everss prominent blasting of the Foxconn deal, and the environmental giveaways that helped secure it, were likely part of the margin.Walker came into the race with plenty of advantages, including the best economy of his tenure, with unemployment numbers at just 3.0 percent. But a politician cannot push $4.5 billion into the waiting arms of a prosperous company and not expect blowback, especially when the company doesnt follow through on its promises.Thats an important lesson for other governors and mayors who promote corporate welfare under the guise of economic development. That includes Andrew Cuomo in New York and Ralph Northam in Virginia, the Democratic governors of the two states rumored to have landed HQ2, Amazons second corporate headquarters, in exchange for billions in subsidies. It even includes Evers, who has been noncommittal about what hell do about the Foxconn catastrophe, expressing reluctance to stop the bulldozers now that ground has been broken.The truth is that these budget-breaking deals dont create many jobs or improve local economies, according to the most exhaustive studies out there. They provide nice backdrops for press events, where everyone can hold a shovel and look the part of a successful politician. But they pale next to the kinds of activities that actually create sustainable economies, like building top-flight education, health care, and transportation systems. Corporate subsidies rob states of actually developing such systems and lower the overall quality of life. And sometimes, in Walkers case, they even cost jobs.*Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly referred to Foxconn as a Chinese manufacturer. The company is Taiwanese, though it is Chinas largest private employer.	Liberal
Jeff Sessions, who resigned on Wednesday, ranked as one of the most regressive political figures to ever lead the Justice Department. The ousted attorney general spent the last two years reshaping federal law enforcement into a blunter and more punitive instrument, squeezing legal and undocumented immigrants alike, and tilting the scales of justice away from disadvantaged communities.His departure came as no surprise. President Donald Trump spent the last year and a half publicly railing against the former Alabama senator for his perceived disloyalty in the Russia investigation. Trump announced in September that he would not oust Sessions until after the midterm elections. His resignation, which Sessions pointedly noted was at Trumps request in his letter, came less than 24 hours after the polls closed.In a post on Twitter, Trump said that he was naming Matthew Whitaker, Sessionss chief of staff, as acting attorney general until he names a permanent replacement. Whittaker is expected to be a loyal foot soldier in the interim period. In August 2017, he wrote an op-ed for CNN warning that special counsel Robert Mueller would be going too far if he investigated Trumps personal finances.We are pleased to announce that Matthew G. Whitaker, Chief of Staff to Attorney General Jeff Sessions at the Department of Justice, will become our new Acting Attorney General of the United States. He will serve our Country well....Sessionss departure marks an ignominious end for one of the presidents most effective Cabinet members. Not since A. Mitchell Palmer was the nations attorney general so singularly focused on imposing his own ideological vision on the rest of the nation. In the U.S. Senate, Sessionss strident restrictionist views on immigration had been relegated to the ideological fringes. But as attorney general, he enjoyed unparalleled influence over the machinery of American immigration and wielded it against those hoping to build a better life for themselves in the United States.His greatest policy triumph amounted to systemic child abuse. Sessions first announced the Trump administrations campaign to separate migrant families at the border in May. He framed it as an effort to crack down on child trafficking, though the policys true purpose was to spread fear among migrants and inflict cruelty upon them. If you are smuggling a child, then we will prosecute you and that child will be separated from you as required by law, he declared. Thousands of children were ultimately separated from their parents, and hundreds have yet to be reunited.The practice brought near-universal condemnation. Medical experts denounced the policy for the psychological trauma it inflicted on children. Former First Lady Laura Bush compared it to Japanese-American internment during World War II. So intense was the criticism that Trump backed down from the policy and signed an executive order to curb separations. But Sessions defended it by invoking a Biblical verse that urges obedience to government power.Sessionss other anti-immigration tactics smacked of malign neglect at best and outright malice at worst. In June, he used his power over the nations immigration courts to declare that domestic abuse and gang violence could no longer be cited as grounds for asylum. The Justice Department tried without much success to cut off some types of federal funds from cities that dont cooperate with immigration enforcement and sued California for passing a sanctuary state law. In an unusually partisan tone for an attorney general, he often castigated Democrats for what he described as open borders policiesa phrase he seemed to deploy against any policies less restrictive than his.On criminal justice, Sessions also pushed the Justice Department in a retrograde direction after some modest reforms under the Obama administration. He instructed prosecutors to seek the maximum possible sentences in every criminal case, even when they are not necessary or appropriate. He revised civil-forfeiture rules to wipe away restrictions on the widely criticized practice. Sessions also rolled back the Justice Departments efforts to supervise police departments with histories of persistent constitutional violations because it could reduce morale among officers. To justify his draconian approach, he falsely told the American people that he and Trump stopped a crime wave and warned that it would return without his policies.Sessionss overall civil rights record was less favorable to marginalized communities than any of his predecessors dating back to the civil rights era of the 1950s and 1960s. Indeed, his efforts are the logical endpoint of the resistance to those movements. If Trumps promise is a return to status quo ante, The Atlantics Vann Newkirk II wrote in June, then Jeff Sessionss doctrine suggests that he represents a return to status quo ante ante, a regime more plainly constructed on the hierarchies and divisions that have for centuries defined America.Sessions instead focused on causes clbres among conservatives, filing religious-freedom lawsuits and combatting purported threats to free speech on college campuses. Sessions noted during a 2017 speech at Georgetown University that a group of protesters at one university wore masks, which he described as a common tactic also used by the detestable Ku Klux Klan, as if nonviolent college students were comparable to Americas first domestic terrorism organization.All of these policies made him a perfect match for Trump. The great tragicomedy of Sessionss downfall is that it came not from his objectionable decisions, but from a wise one. Sessions recused himself from the Russia investigation in May 2017, leaving overall command of the inquiry in the hands of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Less than a week later, Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, on Sessionss recommendation. The move triggered a two-week political firestorm for the administration that only abated after Rosenstein tapped Mueller as special counsel to run the Russia investigation.Trump blamed Sessionss decision to step back for setting into motion a chain of events that pushed the inquiry even further beyond the presidents control. In May 2017, the attorney general reportedly offered his resignation, which Trump declined. Their once-close political relationship has never been the same. Its worth noting that Sessions never heeded calls by his former allies to launch partisan investigations into Trumps political opponents, and he consistently defended Rosenstein from unjust slights by conservative foes of the Russia investigation. But the attorney general does not get credit simply for doing the right thing. Its the job.Some political observers have speculated about the possibility of Trumpism without Trump: the presidents hard-right nativist worldview without his personality flaws, intellectual shortcomings, or political baggage. Sessions proved that it could be enforced as a policy program by someone with enough ideological devotion and bureaucratic skill. Trumps 18-month campaign to humiliate his own attorney general shows, however, that when choosing between Trumpism or Trump, the president will choose the latter without hesitation.	Liberal
In 2016, two members of Congressone Republican and one Democratdecided they wanted to end partisan gridlock over global warming. So, in partnership with the advocacy group Citizens Climate Lobby, they founded the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. To join, members of Congress would have to publicly declare their concern about human-caused climate change. But there was a catch: No Democrat could join unless they had a Republican colleague to bring along.The Climate Solutions Caucus had less than a dozen members when it was founded. But by 2018, it had 45 Democrats and 45 Republicans, seemingly united on the desire to solve, or at least slow, global warming. The Climate Solution Caucus was gutted in Tuesdays elections. Voters threw out 13 Republican members, including the clubs co-founder and co-chair, South Florida Republican Carlos Curbelo. Combined with retiring members, those losses mean the number of GOP members will decrease to 24, a 47 percent decline, according to ThinkProgress. That implies the overall membership will be slashed by about half, since Democrats cant be members without Republican counterparts.Here's what I think happens next in American climate action: Sadly, the era of bipartisan climate action in the U.S. is probably over. The Climate Solutions Caucus, filled with moderate Republicans, has all but crumbled tonight. WA I-1631, a market-based climate policy, failed.The clubs decimation might feel like a loss to some climate advocates. But for others, it was welcome news. On Wednesday morning, the progressive super PAC Climate Hawks Vote released a statement claiming it had succeeded in its goal to end the farce that is the Climate Solutions Caucus. The group had been running television ads against Curbelo in Florida, pointing out that he had taken tens of thousands of dollars from fossil fuel interests and voted for a number of anti-climate policies.We targeted Curbelo specifically because he was perceived as a Republican voice of reason on climate even as he criticized alarmists on hurricanes wreaking havoc on his state, RL Miller, the president of the group, said in a statement. Curbelo was indeed seen as a voice of reason on the issue; in July, he proposed a carbon tax bill that the National Resources Defense Council called one of the first substantive proposals in many years by a congressional Republican to address global warming. But the caucus wasnt full of Republicans like Curbelo. It included many members whose voting records showed zero support for climate solutions. Republican member Matt Gaetz, for example, once proposed a bill to abolish the Environmental Protection Agency. Thus, to Miller and many other environmentalists, the Climate Solutions Caucus has served more as a cover for Republicans to pretend they care about solving global warming, rather than a body that actually works to pass meaningful legislation.Steve Valk, the communications director for Citizens Climate Lobby, understands the criticism. I think its legitimate, he told me on Wednesday. But Valk says the group exists in order to address a harsh realitythat action on climate change will never happen without Republican engagement. Joining the caucus is just the first step of that process, he said. Obviously we want them to go beyond just joining the caucus. But to get them to do that, thats really up to us, the constituents, to give them the support to grab the next piece of the ladder and climb up.So, despite the loss of many of its members, Valk said Congresss bipartisan climate club is going to continueand that more Republicans will join in the next Congress. I think there will be enough to replace what they lost in the election, he said. But who will be the Republican leader now that Curbelo is gone? Everybody wants to know that for some reason, he said. Were not going to speculate on it right now.These are issues the group will face when it sends upwards of 600 volunteers to Washington, D.C., next week to talk with members of Congress about joining. Were looking to make climate change a bridge issue instead of a wedge issue; to make it safe for Republicans to step up and take some action, Valk said. Were hoping next week we can set the table for some bipartisan legislation.But finding Republicans to join the club, let alone lead it, will be considerably harder than it was in 2016 because the midterms wiped out House Republicans who didnt wholeheartedly embrace Trump. We are waking up to a Republican Party that is decidedly more Trumpian than the one it was yesterday, Ben Domenech, publisher of The Federalist, said on CBS. This is a situation where Republican moderates are getting creamed. With the country more politically divided than ever, the Democrats may decide to go at it alone in the fight against global warming. After all, whats the point of a bipartisan climate caucus if only half of its members are offering solutions?	Liberal
The last two years in American politics have spelled trouble for the global climate, thanks largely to the Trump administration. And the next two years probably wont be much better, given the results of Tuesdays midterm elections.Voters failed to pass a historic ballot initiative in Washington state to create the first-ever carbon tax in the United States. They rejected a ballot measure to increase renewable energy in Arizona, and to limit fracking in Colorado. Some of Congress most outspoken climate deniers held onto their seats. Several candidates who ran on explicitly pro-climate agendas lost.Democrats did not quite get the blue wave they wanted, but it was even worse for environmentalists. There was no green wave whatsoever. Thats partially because of record political spending by the fossil fuel industry to oppose pro-climate initiatives, but also because of the Democratic Partys failure as a whole to draw much attention to the issue.The midterm elections were always going to be consequential for climate change. The worlds governments only have about twelve years to implement policies that can limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Thats the point at which catastrophic impacts begin, according to a recent report from an international consortium of scientists.The U.S., as the largest historical emitter of greenhouse gases, is essential to achieving that target. But for the last two years, the U.S. government has been ignoring the need to reduce emissionsand in many cases, actively working against it. Along with withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement, President Donald Trump has been attempting to repeal and weaken existing climate regulation, with the support of the Republican-controlled Congress.The midterms gave voters two opportunities to change Americas course on climate change. They could have elected a Congress that would no longer support Trumps anti-climate agenda. And they could have approved strong statewide climate policies to counter the federal governments inaction. Voters took the first opportunity, but only slightly. Democrats won the House of Representatives, making it near-impossible for Trump to pass any anti-climate legislation. But voters didnt elect many candidates who ran on pro-climate agendas. Environmentalists had hoped that Florida, being on the front lines of climate change, would make history in that regard. But Democratic Senator Bill Nelson, a climate champion, was unseated by Governor Rick Scott, a Republican accused of banning the word climate from state government websites. And Democratic gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum, who pledged to act swiftly on climate, lost to a Republican who has dismissed the problem.Voters rejected almost every opportunity to enact strong state-level climate policies. The biggest failure by far was in Washington. Initiative 1631 would have made the state the first in the country to charge polluters for their emissions. The proceeds from the carbon fee could have provided Washington with as much as $1 billion annually by 2023 to fund government programs related to climate change, Fortune reported, and potentially kickstart a national movement to staunch greenhouse gases. The measure lost by 12 percentage points.The renewable energy ballot initiative in Arizona also presented a big opportunity to reduce emissions. Proposition 127 would have required electric companies in Arizona to get half of their power from renewable sources like solar and wind by 2030. (In a rare win for the environment on Tuesday, Nevada voters passed their own version of that initiative.) Proposition 112, Colorados ballot initiative to keep oil and gas drilling operations away from where people live, was far more about protecting public health than it was about limiting climate change. But the effect would have been to limit further fossil fuel extraction in the state.The oil and gas industry spent quite a lot of money opposing all of these pro-climate ballot initiatives. The campaign against Washingtons carbon fee raised $20 million, 99 percent of which has come from oil and gas, according to Vox. The carbon fee was thus one of the most expensive ballot initiative fights in Washington state history. The renewable energy fight in Arizona was also the most expensive in state history because of oil industry spending. The same was true for Colorados anti-fracking measure, as the oil and gas industry clearly spent nearly $40 million opposing it.While Tuesdays results show the impact of massive political spending by the fossil fuel lobby, they also shine a light on Democrats failure to mobilize voters on the issue. The Democratic Party has failed to treat climate change with much, if any urgency this election season. According to The New York Times, the vast majority of the partys candidates did not mention the problem in digital or TV ads, in their campaign literature or on social media. And the partys leaders in Congress have given little indication that they intend to prioritize climate change in the future. Is it any wonder voters werent excited about solving the problem, either?Correction: A previous version of this story stated that Nevada voters rejected Question 6, a ballot initiative on renewable energy. The measure won.	Liberal
The Supreme Court, its conservative majority in place for years, no longer debates whether state-imposed death is morally right or constitutionally valid. Justice Brett Kavanaughs confirmation last month all but guarantees this will remain true for another generation, despite Justice Stephen Breyers best efforts. Since the court doesnt weigh the substance of the death penalty, it instead focuses on the aesthetics of the system it oversees.These aesthetics are vital to maintaining public support for the system. American capital punishment is ritualized, with a carefully orchestrated set of appeals that often culminates in a last-minute denial from the Supreme Court. Its also theatrical: Executions are choreographed to produce a quiet spectacle for an audience of witnesses, who then convey what they see to the wider world. Justice Harry Blackmun, concluding in 1994 that the system no longer met constitutional standards, described it as the machinery of death.The courts docket this term shows how much that machinery has deteriorated since then, and raises questions about how long the justices can uphold capital punishment while Americans increasingly lose faith in it.The court first heard oral arguments on Tuesday in Bucklew v. Precythe, an unusual lethal-injection case. A Missouri jury sentenced Russell Bucklew to death in 1998 for murdering a man he found with his ex-girlfriend, whom Bucklew then kidnapped and raped. Bucklew does not challenge the validity of his sentence or any of the procedural aspects surrounding it. Instead, hes challenging the manner in which Missouri seeks to end his life.Bucklew suffers from a gruesome condition known as cavernous hemangioma, which creates malformations in some of the bodys blood vessels. Over time, those malformations swell and fill with blood until they form benign tumors. The rare condition can manifest anywhere on the body. Bucklews case is even more unusual because it primarily affects his mouth and throat. His uvula is covered in blood-filled tumors that make it harder to eat, breathe, and sleep. There is no cure for the condition, and it will progressively worsen for as long as he lives.Missouri plans to execute him using the sedative pentobarbital. Bucklew contends that his medical condition raises the likelihood that the lethal injection will go awry. In his brief for the court, his lawyers warned that the violence of his choking as he slips into unconsciousness will likely cause his tumors to rupture and lead him to aspirate his own blood. To prevent this, Bucklew asks to be put to death by lethal gas, specifically by asphyxiating him with nitrogen.State officials oppose Bucklews request on both substantive and procedural grounds. Neither Missouri nor any other state has performed a nitrogen asphyxiation, the state argues, so it does not count as a known and available procedure under the Supreme Courts precedents. Bucklew argues that all he has to do under those precedents is demonstrate that alternative methods exist. How a state implements those other options ... are ultimately up to the state, he told the court. An inmate need not specify every last step the state should take along the path to killing him.Since the 2008 case Baze v. Rees, the court has favored a states desire to perform executions over concerns that its methods may be cruel and unusual. We begin with the principle ... that capital punishment is constitutional, Chief Justice John Roberts wrote for the plurality. It necessarily follows that there must be a means of carrying it out. That logic isnt airtight, to say the least. But its the law of the land. The courts conservative justices took it even further in Glossip v. Gross in 2015. In a 5-4 decision, they gave Oklahoma the green light after the state botched two executions, and set a high legal threshold for future challenges to execution methods.On Tuesday, court-watchers noted a potential change in tone from Roberts, and tough questioning of Missouris lawyer by Kavanaugh. Chief Justice John Roberts asked serious, carefully considered questions about particular execution procedures, the courts precedents, and the ramifications of those precedents, Chris Geidner, BuzzFeed News legal editor, reported on Twitter. At one point Roberts said something along the lines of "if the death penalty is constitutional, as it now is ..." I never would have expected those words to come out of the Chief's mouth until they did. (And I know I wasn't alone in the press corps to note that phrasing.)Kavanaugh asked Missouri's lawyer whether the state could still go forward w an execution under Baze/Glossip "even if" it would cause "gruesome, brutal pain." Lawyer talked around it. Kavanaugh: Is that a yes? Lawyer: Yes.While Bucklew is challenging how he will leave death row, Curtis Flowers is challenging how he arrived there. His case, Flowers v. Mississippi, has a gobsmacking procedural history even by the standards of death penalty prosecutions. Local prosecutors have put him on trial six times to convict him for the murders of four people at a furniture store in Winona, Mississippi, in 1996. The first three trials led to convictions but were overturned on appeal because local district attorney Doug Evans had gone to extraordinary lengths to keep black Mississippians off the jury. Jurors failed to reach a unanimous verdict during his fourth and fifth trials. The sixth trial saw Flowers, who is black, convicted of all four murders.Flowers argues that prosecutors also relied on racially discriminatory practices during his sixth trial. Evans allowed a single black juror and a single black alternate juror during the jury selection process, and struck the rest. This tactic mirrored Evanss past efforts to craft disproportionately white juries; the Mississippi Supreme Court even admonished him after Flowerss third trial for demonstrating as strong a prima facie case of racial discrimination as [it had] ever seen. This time, however, the court upheld Flowerss death sentence in a sharply divided decision.Four justices on the Mississippi Supreme Court dissented from the courts ruling, including Justice Leslie King. Although 42 percent of the panel of prospective jurors were African Americans, he noted, the jury that convicted and sentenced Flowers consisted of eight percent African Americans. King also pointed out that Evans asked black prospective jurors three times as many questions as their white counterparts, and that his questions for white jurors were perfunctory re-phrasings of those already asked by the trial judge. Because of that failure, I cannot conclude that Flowers received a fair trial, nor can I conclude that prospective jurors were not subjected to impermissible discrimination, King wrote.When it took Flowerss case last Friday, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to consider whether the Mississippi Supreme Court properly applied precedents that forbid racial discrimination in jury selection. But there are also serious doubts that Flowers is guilty of the crime for which he has been repeatedly prosecuted. Local civil-rights groups, including the Magnolia Bar Association and the Innocence Project New Orleans, told the Supreme Court that Flowerss case was built on faulty eyewitnesses, improper forensics, and false confessions from untruthful informants. They noted that Evans, the prosecutor who sought to craft all-white juries to convict Flowers, had attended meetings organized by the Council of Conservative Citizens, a white supremacist group that opposes all efforts to mix the races of mankind. Though the justices will not be technically considering whether Flowers is innocent or guilty, this background may make them more receptive to his cases procedural flaws.Bucklew and Flowerss cases ultimately are about whether, and how, their lives will be ended by the government. But they also raise deeper issues with the death penalty. Is it administered in a needlessly cruel way when it risks forcing a man to drown in his own blood? Is it handed out by a local criminal justice system that appears inextricably driven by racism? The justices will have to wrestle with the age-old challenge of maintaining public confidence in American capital punishment. What they may ultimately find is that the system does not deserve it.	Liberal
Stumping for Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams last week, former President Barack Obama made the case that Tuesdays midterms were an existential test for the country. The midterms may be the most important election of our lifetime, the former president said. The character of our country is on the ballot. On Monday, he returned to that message in a series of tweets:When you vote, you have the power to make it easier for a student to afford college, and harder for a disturbed person to shoot up a classroom. When you vote, you have the power to make sure a family keeps its health insurance.Obama is rightto an extent. Tuesdays election is the countrys first real opportunity to rebuke a president who has repeatedly abused his office and a party that has deliberately sabotaged the health care of millions, damaged the rule of law, redistributed wealth to the richest Americans, and caused significant damage to long-standing diplomatic relationships. Rejecting Trump and Trumpism, especially given the racist tenor of the GOPs midterms push, is important, especially at the state level, where Republican governors and legislatures have trampled on voting rights.While the character of the country may be on the ballot, though, the character of its politics arent changing any time soon. Sweeping Democratic victories on Tuesdayespecially if the party retakes both chambers of Congresswill lead to positive steps, including overdue House oversight investigations and, if they win the Senate, meaningful checks on the presidents power and influence over both the judiciary and various cabinet positions, particularly the Justice Department. But it will also lead to a fierce counter-reaction from the president and his alliesand a further embrace of racist fear-mongering over issues like the migrant caravan. If Republicans preserve their control of Congress, meanwhile, it would be devastating, leading to the end of the Mueller investigation and perhaps the repeal of Obamacare. No matter what happens on Tuesday, then, the state of American politics can only get worse.A blue wave on Tuesday would undoubtedly be a blow to the president and his party. If the Democrats take the House, but not the Senatethe likeliest outcomethey could still do an enormous amount of damage, ensnaring him in investigations into his finances, behavior, and governance for years to come. If they take the Senate as well, they could constrain his power by refusing to confirm judgesas Jeff Flake threatened to do over tariffsand executive branch appointees.These would be reasonable, overdue actions. But they will be met with a furious response. If the Democrats take the House and not the Senate, would-be Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Trump will spend the next two years locking horns over subpoena after subpoena. The Senate will respond by acting as a shield, with the same Republican lawmakers who stepped in to protect Brett KavanaughChuck Grassley, John Cornyn, and Lindsey Grahamdoing their best to distract from or downplay his scandals. This particular dynamic likely wouldnt change even if Democrats prevail take the Senate.Theoretically, divided government could lead to compromise, since Trump would need Democrats to pass legislation. With 2020 approaching, the thinking goes, he would be incentivized to make deals that show that he can get things done (on infrastructure, for instance). But Trump has shown no interest in this kind of politics. Yes, he has flirted with bipartisanship in the past, but has always ultimately demurred, either due to pressure from aides and donors or from a preternatural devotion to his base. When pressed, Trump has eschewed dealmaking and calls for unity and doubled down on attacks on the media and his Democratic opposition. Over the last two years, despite controlling Washington, Republicans have done little with their power. Their only major legislative achievement was the $1.5 trillion tax cut, largely benefiting corporations and the wealthy, which appears to represent the entirety of the partys ideas. The GOPs policy apathy has become apparent over the last two months, as candidates across the country have embraced the presidents ethno-nationalism and racist immigration policy. With defeat looming, the GOP sees fear-mongering as the only way to get their aging white base to the pollsa strategy that worked two years ago. Expect Republicans to employ these tactics even in defeat.In fact, they may employ them especially if they lose. The most likely Republicans to lose in Tuesdays midterms are the most moderate members of Congress, those in suburban districts won by Hillary Clinton in 2016. That means that your ordinary Freedom Caucus member is going to get reelected even in a blue wave, while the vulnerable members are the more moderate ones who represent swing districts, Paul Waldman wrote in The Washington Post on Monday. This will produce a somewhat ironic result in the next Congress: The bigger the blue wave, the more conservative the Republican caucus will end up being when its over, and the less equipped the GOP will be to run a different kind of campaign in 2020.The GOPs embrace of a migrant caravan that is hundreds of miles away is instructive. The caravan poses no national security risk, but Republicans and their allies have made all kinds of wild insinuations, suggesting it is full of gang members, terrorists, and lepers. Though some Republicans worry that the caravan will cost the party voters, thus far it appears to be a successful get-out-the-vote strategy as well as a distraction from more pressing issues that dont reflect well on the president (from Saudi Arabias carnage to yet more administration scandals). As the walls close in on Trump, the racist appeals will only increase.This is true even with the best possible scenario on Tuesday, in which Democrats win both chambers of Congress. If Republicans were to remain fully in power, the result would be infinitely worse. While its unclear how much the GOP could do with a narrow majority, it would be a major blow to Obamacare, sensible immigration policy, and the Russia investigation. A victory in Trumps first midterms, in defiance of historical patterns, would also validate the partys devotion to racially charged appeals and voter suppression, and they would double down on both.Republicans opened the Pandoras Box that led to Trumps presidency years ago. They have become, as the midterm campaign has made clear, a party whose core identity is based around xenophobia and white grievance. Democratic victories on Tuesday may set in motion the end of Trumps presidency; they would certainly provide a level of oversight that has been sorely lacking for the past two years. And the Republicans would respond by heeding their worst instincts. What happens in 2020 is anyones guess, but the final scene of Reservoir Dogs comes to mind.	Liberal
Colorado voters wont just be choosing elected officials when they go to the polls on Tuesday. Theyll be deciding, via a controversial ballot initiative, the future of the oil and gas industry in the state. Proposition 112 would require all new oil and gas development to be at least 2,500 feet from inhabited buildings and other vulnerable areas where it poses a risk to humans and the environment. According to one estimate, such restrictions could render 95 percent of land in the top energy-producing counties off limits to new drilling. That could really harm the economy, opponents say, since Colorado ranks among the countrys top oil and gas producers.But Proposition 112 also could harm Colorados status as a swing state, or so the industry implies. To them, the measurewhich would impact both traditional drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or frackingis not so much an attempt to protect public health, but, as The New York Times put it, a liberal effort to drive a working-class industryand its conservative employeesout of the state for good. As one worker told the paper, The people that oppose this industry, they treat us as if were really evil. They want to ban oil and gas and chase us out of this state.Proponents insist thats not the goal. Our only concern is that massive toxic industrial drilling is currently happening 500 feet from our homes, and 1000 feet from our schools, said Anne Lee Foster, a spokesperson for the environmental group Colorado Rising. She also argued there would still be plenty of work to go around if it passed. Theres 55,000 active wells in the state that the proposition does not apply to at all, she said. Supporters do, however, see Proposition 112 as a chance to put a progressive stamp on a purple state, according to the Times. And the timing would certainly be good to make such a mark, said Scott Adler, who chairs the political science department at University of Colorado Boulder. Though Colorado is split in thirds among Republicans, Democrats and independents, he said, Were certainly going more blue than red in recent years.But would passing an anti-drilling measure such as Proposition 112 really drive conservatives out Colorado, ushering in a reliably blue Colorado?State political observers roundly laugh at the suggestion. For one, Adler said, the economic impacts probably wont be as severe as opponents claim. There are lots of claims about what [Proposition 112] going to do, Adler said. But the idea that it would end drilling completely seems a bit far fetched. Tom Cronin, a retired Colorado College professor who authored a book on Colorado politics, agreed. While some rural areas will certainly be negatively affected, he said, The impact on the economy has been exaggerated.I think this suggestion that conservatives might flee Colorado over 112 is silly, said Diane Carman, a former veteran columnist for the Denver Post. The only way that would be true is if the conservatives heavily invested in oil and gas development in Colorado are unwilling to adapt to new rules and itching to leave anyway. It will certainly be more expensive to adapt to Proposition 112to comply with the setback rule, companies will have to drill further horizontally underground to reach oil and gas reservesbut it wont be impossible.Even if conservative Coloradans do lose their oil jobs, Cronin still doesnt think theyll leave the state en masse. After all, he said, when Colorados Democratic Governor John Hickenlooper moved to the state in 1981, he was a geologist for an oil companyand immediately got laid off. Instead of leaving and going back home, he founded another business, Cronin said. Hes now got 19 restaurants and beer pubs across the country.Polling shows voters almost evenly split on Proposition 112 heading into Election Day. If the measure fails, it will be a huge victory for the oil and gas industry, which spent more than $30 million trying to defeat it. If the initiative passes, it will be a win for public health and environmental advocates who want to keep drilling away from their communities. What it wont be is a referendum on conservatism in Colorado.  Weve been consistent for 30 years now as to party registration figures, and this is despite the fact that millions of people have moved here, Cronin said. Colorado is purple. I think its going to be purple for a while.	Liberal
Chief Justice John Roberts made a bold declaration on the state of American race relations in 2013. Our country has changed, he concluded in his majority opinion in Shelby County v. Holder, and while any racial discrimination in voting is too much, Congress must ensure that the legislation it passes to remedy that problem speaks to current conditions. With those words, he and the courts conservative majority gutted a key provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.Brian Kemp, Georgias secretary of state, seems to be on a one-man mission to prove Roberts wrong. The state purged more than 500,000 voters from the rolls under his watch in 2017, raising the likelihood that thousands of voters may be unable to cast a ballot when they show up to the polls next week. The Associated Press reported earlier this month that his office also froze 53,000 voter applications under its exact match policy, which allows officials to reject voter registration forms if the applicants information doesnt precisely correspond with state and federal recordseven if its only off by a comma or a hyphen. Seventy percent of those forms were filled out by African Americans. Kemp is in a tight race for governor against Stacey Abrams, who would be the first black woman ever to hold that position in the country.Though Kemp is receiving the most attention during this election cycle, his actions are far from unusual. Officials in Republican-led states have enacted a variety of restrictive voting measures over the past decade similar to the ones hes pursued. They defend these measures as a prophylactic against voter fraud, which is virtually nonexistent. But in practical terms, the greatest effect is to make it harder for thousands of Americans, particularly from disadvantaged communities, to vote. No small share of credit goes to the Roberts Court.The Voting Rights Act is no ordinary piece of legislation. People died for it. Civil rights activists in the 1950s and 1960s were beaten, bloodied, and even murdered in the campaign to guarantee black Americans ballot access. Once enacted, it proved to be a powerful tool at sweeping away the last vestiges of Jim Crow and ensuring that states where it once thrived would not relapse into past deprivations. Measured by its impact, it ranks among the most effective pieces of human rights legislation passed in the twentieth century.The law featured two key provisions. Section 2 established a permanent and nationwide ban on racial discrimination in election laws. The VRAs most powerful weapon, however, was Section 5. That provision established a process known as preclearance, whereby certain states and counties with a history of racially discriminatory voting practices had to seek approval from the Justice Department or a federal court in D.C. before making any changes to their election laws. The bulk of the covered jurisdictions were initially in the Deep South. Over time, it expanded to cover Alaska and Arizona to protect Native American voting rights, as well as a smattering of counties throughout the Northeast and the West.Preclearance amounted to an extraordinary federal intervention in state and local election laws, but the VRAs drafters argued it was necessary to reverse almost a century of racist voter suppression in the South and elsewhere. I think it is time that strong medicine be taken for this malady that has come upon us, Kentucky Representative Frank Chelf remarked during a congressional hearing on the law. Maybe we need some 110-proof Kentucky bourbon instead of the mild, gentle, soft, mellow, whispering, 86-proof, discriminating whiskey, if you know what I mean. Maybe we even need some block and tackle whiskey. Thats the kind, you know, you take a drink, you walk a block, and you tackle anybody. The Supreme Court agreed and upheld the procedures constitutionality in 1966.For decades, the law seemed legally and politically secure. Congress reauthorized the VRA with overwhelming bipartisan support in 2006, extending preclearance over certain jurisdictions for another 25 years. But a legal challenge to the extension by a utility board in Texas opened the first crack in the laws foundation. In 2009, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled in Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District No. 1 v. Holder that the board could apply through the VRA to opt out of preclearance. Roberts, writing for the court, also raised questions about the constitutionality of preclearance itself. More than 40 years ago, this court concluded that exceptional conditions prevailing in certain parts of the country justified extraordinary legislation otherwise unfamiliar to our federal system, he wrote. In part due to the success of that legislation, we are now a very different nation. Whether conditions continue to justify such legislation is a difficult constitutional question we do not answer today. Meanwhile, in Georgia, which had been subject to preclearance from the beginning, the VRA was proving as valuable as ever. Before Kemp became secretary of state in 2010, Georgia was twice blocked by the Justice Department from implementing a version of the exact-match policy. But the Obama administration may have seen the warning signs in the Roberts Courts ruling in Northwest Austin: The Justice Department abandoned its legal fight against the exact-match policy, approving a modified version of the program shortly after Kemp entered office. At the time, civil rights lawyers suspected that the Obama administration settled the states lawsuit to avoid giving the Supreme Court a chance to strike down part of the Voting Rights Act. Those fears were well-founded. When the court took up the issue again in Shelby County in 2013, the conservative justices skepticism was apparent.Is it the governments submission that the citizens in the South are more racist than citizens in the North? Roberts asked during oral arguments. Justice Antonin Scalia made the bewildering suggestion that Congress only reauthorized the VRA in 2006 because lawmakers would not be re-elected if they voted against it, as if that were not how representative democracy should work. Whenever a society adopts racial entitlements, it is very difficult to get out of them through the normal political processes, he added.Civil rights groups warned the Roberts Court that its ruling could have dire implications. This Courts decisions in the 1870s to invalidate federal voting rights legislation paved the way for Southern states to enact laws that effectively barred African Americans from exercising their right to vote for many generations, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights told the justices in a friend-of-the-court brief. If this Court were to invalidate Section 5, there is a very real and substantial risk that this history would repeat itself. The Court should not allow this to happen.Georgia Representative John Lewis, a civil rights hero, told the court that Barack Obamas election showed how far the nation had come since Alabama state troopers fractured his skull during the Selma-to-Montgomery marches for voting rights in 1963. At the same time, he warned that the Obama era had also reinvigorated a darker part of the American soul. In response to more minority voters participating in the political process, six of the nine states fully covered under Section 5 have passed legislation in the last two years designed to restrict voting rights and access to the polls, he wrote. These laws hearken back to the days of Jim Crow, and remind us all that we have not left the past behind.In the end, Roberts and the other four conservative justices left Section 5 intact, and instead struck down Section 4(b) as unconstitutional. That provision listed which jurisdictions would fall under Section 5. As Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg noted in her dissent, the House and Senate held 21 hearings on the matter during the 2006 reauthorization and had amassed a 15,000-page record as part of its deliberations. But Roberts and his colleagues swapped out the legislative fact-finding process with their own policy assessment and found the law wanting.Congress did not use the record it compiled to shape a coverage formula grounded in current conditions, Roberts wrote. It instead reenacted a formula based on 40-year-old facts having no logical relation to the present day. The judicial sleight of hand meant that the court could avoid striking down preclearance itself. Roberts noted that Congress was free to pass a new coverage formula, but he must have known that the Republican Party had no interest in doing so. Preclearance is now a sword that cant be unsheathed.Ginsburg compared the majoritys ruling to throwing away an umbrella because it wasnt raining outside. But Kemp downplayed the implications of the courts ruling. It doesnt mean that we dont still have to follow the law or that we wont get sued if we dont follow the law, he told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. It just shifts the burden from us having to prove to other groups having to prove [discrimination], and thats huge for the taxpayers of Georgia.While its impossible to know how the Justice Department would handle individual preclearance cases today if the provision were still in force, the trajectory in Georgia is clearer, according to Danielle Lang, a staff attorney at the Campaign Legal Center, which has challenged multiple iterations of the exact-match policy in court. I think its a very fair statement overall to say, she told me, that we would not see the level of disenfranchisement that we see today if preclearance were still in effect.	Liberal
Ever since he announced his retirement in April, Speaker Paul Ryan has largely avoided the limelight, emerging now and then to repel another far-right rebellion in the House or gently criticize President Donald Trump over the latest outrage (such as opposing birthright citizenship). Mostly, Ryan has tried to steer clear of Trump, with whom he has clashed and whose presidency many believe convinced Ryan to retire. Asked by CBS News John Dickerson last week if Trump practices inclusive politics which tries to unify, Ryan shrugged. Sometimes he does and sometimes he doesnt, he said.You get the sense that, with his political career winding down, Ryan just wants it all to be over. But that doesnt mean he isnt thinking about his legacy. Pressed on his accomplishments back in April, Ryan was modest: I think weve achieved a heck of a lot.... I like to think Ive done my part, my little part in history to set us on a better course. Thats as much of a self-assessment as hell allowat least until he signs a hefty book deal with Crown Forum. But on Friday, Ryan published an op-ed in the Washington Examiner that, though ostensibly about turning out GOP voters in Tuesdays midterm elections, doubled as a political obituary.Its a fascinating document, springing from a kind of funhouse-mirror world of Republican politicsone in which Ryans disingenuous brand of think tank conservatism has won out over Trumps demagogic dog whistles, and where Republican congressmen are running for re-election on the roaring economy rather than a caravan of migrant asylum-seekers. Its also an attempt to launder his legacy, by claiming undue credit for the state of the economy and implicitly justifying the Republican Partys submissionespecially his ownto Donald Trump.Trumps name does not appear in Ryans op-ed, which is fitting given that Ryan has gone to great lengths to avoid uttering it and often professes ignorance of Trumps latest offenses. But the absence, while part of a longstanding pattern, suggests wishful thinking on Ryans partand lends an unreality to the article, as if it were being published during a very different election. When House Republicans campaigned in 2016, we made the American people a promise, Ryan began. We said that if voters placed their confidence in us and entrusted us with a mandate to govern, we would lead on the tough issues and improve peoples lives with our ideas.Thats a very different version of the 2016 election than most Americans experienced it. Outside of the central, character-driven fight between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, congressional Republicans largely campaigned, for the fourth consecutive election, on repealing Obamacare and exploited instability in the insurance exchanges to protect their majorities. But Ryan and House Republicans also campaigned on an ambitious tax plan that would provide widespread tax reliefthough 99.6 percent of the benefits would go to the top 1 percent in less than a decade, according to a contemporaneous study from the the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. This was to be expected from Ryan, who built his political career by framing welfare-gutting and upward wealth redistribution as bold, innovative policymaking. Casting himself as the heir to Jack Kemps brand of compassionate conservatism, but also a new kind of right-wing policy wonk, he hoodwinked Beltway journalists for years and nearly got away with it.The cracks in the facade of his carefully cultivated image emerged during his failedand at times embarrassing2012 vice presidential campaign. Ryans great strength, as explained by Alec MacGillis in a 2012 profile in The New Republic, was not as a master of policy, but a shrewd exploiter of changing political winds. But once Ryan successfully cast himself as the partys leading conservative wonk, it seemed that nothingneither repeated policy failures nor evidence of his griftcould dent his standing. Once you gain a reputation as a Serious Man in Washington, its almost impossible to lose it, MacGillis wrote.But Trumps rise exposed Ryan for the fraud that he always was: a bog standard Republican, just one with a P90X obsession. While he was able to bring Trump over to his broader plutocratic program, larger failuresparticularly on Obamacare repeal, though the House did eventually pass itexposed him as someone with noticeably little to offer when it came to ideas. The Speaker, not the president, is the greatest political fraud of our time, Jeet Heer wrote in these pages shortly after Ryans shoddy attempt at Obamacare repeal crashed and burned in March of last year.Ryan took the speakership in 2015 to quell a Republican Civil War, but was never quite able to tame the GOPs right flank, which continued to thumb its nose at him. There was a sense, when he took the job, that he was the only man who could bridge the divides within the Republican Party, but he was barely able to do that. Despite having a unified government, Republicans have accomplished startlingly little over the last two years. But Ryan, cosplaying Ronald Reagans sunny optimism, sees only success. Two years later, Im proud that we have upheld our end of the bargain, he wrote in last weeks op-ed. We passed more than 1,000 bills in the House that make a meaningful difference.Asked for documentation, a Ryan spokesperson pointed me to this fact-check from the The Daily Caller News Foundation, which shows that the House has indeed passed more than 1,000 bills this session. But volume isnt a very good way to judge the effectiveness of a legislative body. You cant count the number of bills (of which there has been close to the fewest in modern history) or the number of pages of bills (of which there has been close to the most in modern history). You have to ask whether Congress has enacted meaningful legislation, GovTracks Tauberer told the Daily Caller News Foundation.Ryan argues that these bills have been meaningful. He touts Congress efforts to fight the opioid epidemic and to create opportunity zones to make it easier for depressed areas to receive private capital, but its not yet clear how effective those policies will be. He also takes credit for the booming economy: Think about how the American people are better off thanks to the policies we have enacted working with this president. This claim is based largely on his signature legislative achievement under Trump, and perhaps ever: the $1.5 trillion tax cut. The cut has essentially acted as rocket fuela stimulus for an already thriving economybut the economy began its boom under Barack Obama. An NPR investigation found that its hard to see  a turning point in major economic yardsticks such as jobs, unemployment, or wages after Trumps election, despite Republican claims.Jobs created during the first 21 months of Trumps presidency and the final 21 months of Obamas presidency:Trump: 4,054,000Obama: 4,477,000So job creation is no better now than it was under Obama. What is striking is that the recovery continues so long after it started.Although the vast majority of the benefits of that cut go to corporations, who saw their tax rate slashed from 35 to 20 percent, and wealthy Americans, Ryan depicts it as a middle-class tax cut. We simplified the tax code, doubled the standard deduction, and increased the child tax credit to allow people to keep more of what they earn and make filing easier, he wrote. This is how one might expect Republicans to run on a tax cut, but theyre largely not doing so because many people arent seeing the kinds of benefits that Ryan is touting.This is Ryanism in its purest form: insisting that a policy that largely benefits the rich and explodes the deficit is egalitarian and fiscally responsible. But Ryans most brazen dishonesty appears in his description of the GOPs opposition:Republicans have delivered on our promises, and today we have a more confident and prosperous America. Democrats, on the other hand, are promising to roll back this progress and suffocate Washington in chaos and dysfunction. They want to paralyze Washington and drown the White House in frivolous subpoenas and investigations, ignoring the problems that their constituents face. Their plan for healthcare is to abolish the private insurance market, removing all freedom and choice from individuals, and instead have a one-size fits all approach While the Democratic party is in the throes of an identity crisis, House Republicans are focused day-in and day-out on finding solutions that make peoples lives better.Here, Ryan adopts Trumps overheated partisanship, his singular ability to ascribe his faults (civil war, chaos, dysfunction) to his opponents, and combines it with the Republican Partys Red Scare fear-mongering about Democrats interest in universal health care. Above all, theres the hypocrisy: Washington was overwhelmed by frivolous subpoenas and investigations during the six years the Republicans controlled the House under Obama, one of the most scandal-free presidents in American history.Ultimately, Ryans description of the last two years doubles as a description of his time in Congress. At first glance, you see the sunny disposition, the list of accomplishments, the policies taking effect across America. But upon closer inspection, theres surprisingly little there. Ryan is no less hollow than the Republican Party, which explains why they were so easily commandeered by a celebrity con man.	Liberal
The battle in Florida between Ron DeSantis, a Trumpist Republican congressman, and Andrew Gillum, a black progressive mayor, is one of the tightest and most high-profile gubernatorial races of 2018. Its also the ugliest.The gloves came off in late August, when DeSantis said on Fox News that Florida should not monkey this up by electing Gillum, which many interpreted as a racist dog whistle. Since then, the candidates have engaged in a repetitive tit-for-tat: Gillum calls out DeSantis for using racially charged language and palling around with racists, and DeSantis accuses Gillum of bringing up race to distract from corruption allegations that have orbited his mayorship. The election of Gillum, who is leading by a small margin in polling averages, would be historic. Hed be Floridas first black governor and its first Democratic governor of the twenty-first century. But the race between Gillum and DeSantis will resonate outside of Florida, and not just because a Gillum victory will be interpreted as a rebuke to President Donald Trump in a state he won by a single point in 2016.While racism has played a major role in the 2018 midterms, thanks largely to Trumps desperate attempt to make the migrant caravan a defining issue, the Florida contest is unique in that its explicitly a referendum on racismfrom Gillums perspective, anyway. But such contests may soon become the norm, especially in the South, as Democrats nominate more diverse candidates and Republicans increasingly run campaigns aimed at turning out aggrieved older white voters. Floridas gubernatorial race may be a harbinger of an even uglier politics in 2020.DeSantiss bid for the Republican nomination for governor was bolstered by his perceived closeness to Trump, who endorsed his campaign as far back as December of 2017. Three months earlier, the Jacksonville congressman had added a rider to a spending bill that would end funding for special counsel Robert Muellers investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Trumps support, The New York Times Jonathan Martin wrote earlier this year, showed the broader nationalization of conservative politics, in which a willingness to hurl rhetorical lightning bolts at the left, the media and special counsel Robert S. Mueller can override local credentials, local endorsements and preparedness for a state-based job.DeSantis has clung to Trump like a life raft for the past several months. In late July, he released a widely ridiculed ad detailing his deep love for the president: He teaches his daughter Madison to build the wall with toy blocks, reads The Art of the Deal to his son Mason, and attempts to teach Madison how to say Make America Great Again.DeSantiss campaign has also faced a number of accusations of racism, beginning with his monkey this up comment in late August. Weeks later, an Idaho-based white supremacist group funded racist robocalls that were narrated by someone pretending to be Gillum and using an exaggerated minstrel dialect with jungle noises in the background. The Washington Post reported that DeSantis had attended conferences hosted by a white nationalist and that his campaigns co-chair was a Florida Republican who had been recorded using the n-word.The DeSantis campaign has complained that these stories are a distraction from the fact that the FBI is investigating corruption in Tallahassee, where Gillum has been mayor for the last four years. Gillum has not been accused of wrongdoing, but DeSantis and Trump have made it a centerpiece of their case against him. Trumps appeals, in particular, have featured coded language, contrasting the Harvard/Yale educated man DeSantis with the thief Gillum.In Florida there is a choice between a Harvard/Yale educated man named @RonDeSantisFL who has been a great Congressman and will be a great Governor - and a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee, said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!But the most electric moment of the campaign occurred during a debate earlier this month. Asked about his connections to racists, DeSantis responded angrily. How the hell am I supposed to know every single statement someone makes? DeSantis said.  As governor, I will represent all the people... I am not going to bow down to the altar of political correctness. As my grandmother used to say  a hit dog will holler. pic.twitter.com/kC34Ldd0isMy grandmother used to say, A hit dog will holler, Gillum responded, and it hollered through this room. Mr. DeSantis has spoken. First of all, hes got neo-Nazis helping him out in this state. He has spoken at racist conferences. He has accepted a contributionand would not return itfrom someone who referred to [Barack Obama] as a Muslim n-i-g-g-e-r. When asked to return that money, he said, No. Hes using that money to now fund negative ads. Now, Im not calling Mr. DeSantis a racist. Im simply saying that the racists believe hes a racist.Its a cleverand perhaps still underratedrebuttal. For the last two years, politicians and the media have struggled to deal with the discrepancy between some Republican candidates racist supporters and the candidates own vehement denials of holding any prejudices. These denials inevitably create muddled, he said, he said moments that allow candidates to evade responsibility and affiliation with their most heinous supporters. But Gillum, by tying DeSantis to his associates as well as those who seek to associate themselves with him, erased the space that politicians like him and Trump retreat into when challenged.Were running against an ideology, Sharon Lettman-Hicks, the senior adviser for Gillums campaign, told Rolling Stones Jamil Smith. Were running against a past. Were running against Donald Trump. I mean, DeSantis is just a person that was chosen to run what Donald Trump needs to keep a foothold on a major artery of this country. I dont feel like we have a genuine opponent because we cant articulate what our opponent stands for. All we can articulate is who our opponent supports.But Trump is just one part of the equation. Yes, DeSantis is a hand-picked candidate, but the strategy hes embracing will outlive the president. As the Republican base of older white voters shrinks due to demographics trends, the party has gone to increasingly extreme measures to animate them to voteand many candidates, especially in the South, have found that race-based appeals accomplish this better than, say, tax cuts for the rich. Thats why Republican candidates across the countryincluding DeSantisare fear-mongering about the migrant caravan, claiming that if Democrats are elected, gang members and terrorists will flood the country. The caravans cant just be allowed to overrun our border, he said earlier this month. Were a sovereign country. When you see that developing, obviously thats orchestrated. Anytime we have massive incursions across our southern border the thing I worry about is that thats effectively a wet kiss to the drug cartels.Its possible that the Florida gubernatorial race truly is an exceptionthat it does not herald a darker future in which Republicans make nakedly racist appeals to white voters and Democrats breezily call their opponents racists in order to turn out minority voters. Maybe Gillum, and Stacey Abrams in Georgia, will win their respective gubernatorial bids, and the GOP will abandon its two-pronged strategy of racial incitement and minority-voter suppression. But its just as possible that Gillum and Abrams will lose, validating this strategy in Republicans minds.And then theres the third, and perhaps likeliest, possibility: that Gillum and Abrams win, and the Republicans conclude their mistake was that they didnt go far enough.	Liberal
In 2016, an international team of scientists set out to determine how much of the earths land is still wild. They were alarmed at what they found: Deserts, grasslands, tropical and boreal forests are all rapidly disappearing. In the last two decades, 10 percent of terrestrial wilderness has been replaced by buildings, farmland, and other development. Only 23 percent of all land on the planet remains relatively untouched.The ocean is in an even more dire state. In a study published this summer, a research team made up of some of the same scientists found that only 13 percent of the ocean can be classified as marine wilderness. The rest has been altered by anthropogenic stressors, such as industrial fishing, pollution, and shipping.The ocean research was limited by a lack of historical data, so its unknown how quickly marine wilderness has declined in the last 20 years. But the two papers make one thing clear: Humans are threatening a complete takeover of both the land and the sea. After climate change, its the most urgent environmental crisis of our time.On Wednesday, the scientists led by Australias University of Queensland attempted to explain why the impending disappearance of wild places is so dire. Numerous studies are starting to reveal that Earths most intact ecosystems have all sorts of functions that are becoming increasingly crucial, they wrote in the prestigious journal Nature.The general public may view wilderness areas like recreational facilities. But scientists see them more like libraries. They contain a wealth of information about the natural worldwhy it has thrived for so long, how it adapts and evolves under the pressure of evolution, and what truly makes it die. They are important reservoirs of genetic information, and act as reference areas for efforts to re-wild degraded land and seascapes, the scientists wrote. The information contained in wild places allows researchers to predict what will happen as climate change worsens. Speaking of climate change, untouched places also happen to be humanitys biggest shield against the phenomenon. Tropical and boreal forests are carbon sinks: They absorb up to 40 percent of the carbon dioxide we emit into the atmosphere, thereby preventing it from causing rapid warming of the planet. Human development within these forests not only limits their ability to provide this critical function; it creates more carbon emissions by replacing the trees with high-emitting farming and logging operations. Wild seagrass meadows provide a similar carbon-absorbing function in the oceanthat is, until theyre affected by pollution. When that happens, they switch from being carbon sinks to major carbon sources, the scientists wrote. Wild places can protect communities from extreme weather, too. Simulations of tsunamis, for instance, indicate that healthy coral reefs provide coastlines with at least twice as much protection as highly degraded ones.Wild places are also critical habitats for wildlife, which is declining at a stunning rate. A report released Monday by the advocacy group World Wildlife Fund found that mammal, bird, fish, reptile and amphibian populations have declined at a 60 percent rate on average since 1970, a phenomenon due in part to habitat loss. This isnt just bad for the animals, either. There is a connection between loss of the natural environment and human health, WWFs chief executive Carter Roberts told the Washington Post. Where does our food come from? Where does our water come?The complete degradation and disappearance of wilderness on the planet is a real possibility, but not inevitable. Some of the worlds wealthiest citizens are stepping up to save whats left. Yvon Chouinard, the billionaire founder of outdoor company Patagonia, has used his company to donate $89 million toward conservation efforts, as well as advocate against the Trump administrations anti-wilderness efforts. He also founded 1% For the Planet, an effort to increase environmental philanthropy. And on Thursday, Swiss philanthropist Hansjrg Wyss, who lives in Wyoming, announced in a New York Times op-ed that hes donating $1 billion over the next decade to help accelerate land and ocean conservation efforts around the world, with the goal of protecting 30 percent of the planets surface by 2030.But we cant, and shouldnt, hope that the rich will save Earth. Only governments have that power. Thats why the scientists writing in Nature propose a Paris climate agreement for the wilderness. What is needed is the establishment of global targets within existing international frameworksspecifically, those aimed at conserving biodiversity, avoiding dangerous climate change, and achieving sustainable development, they wrote. In our view, a bold yet achievable target is to define and conserve 100 percent of all remaining intact ecosystems.It just so happens that the annual United Nations meeting on implementing the Paris climate agreement is scheduled for December. Theyd be wise to add wilderness preservation to the agenda.	Liberal
In a bid to whip up his base in the closing days before the midterm elections, President Donald Trump announced his intention to end birthright citizenship. The move shifts focus from the thousands of desperate women, men, and children fleeing violence and unrest in Central America to an even more vulnerable target: the approximately 275,000 babies born annually in the United States to non-citizen parents. With a stroke of his pen, Trump is hoping to do away with a right that is spelled out in the Constitution and which represents Americas historical values of equality and openness.A day earlier, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, a fierce defender of liberal democratic values, announced that she would not seek another term after a foreboding election in the state of Bavaria in which a third of voters cited migration and the integration of foreigners as the biggest problem facing the state. The populist onslaught has been egged on by the anti-immigration party Alternative for Germany (Afd), which gained seats in last months election despite the fact that the number of refugees and migrants in the country has dropped markedly from highs three years ago. On both sides of the Atlantic, politicians are portraying immigrants and refugees as a plague on society: job-takers and criminals who make us less prosperous and less safe. Its a familiar narrative, usually untethered from the facts, that has been used throughout history to stir up democratic societys worstand most self-defeatingpolitical impulses. If we dont change course, the consequences could be dire, and not just for thousands of desperate immigrants who deserve a chance for a new life. History has shown that when immigration policy is tightened, we all lose.  In the mid-1800s, America learned the hard way that policy driven by anti-immigrant rhetoric has consequences not just for our moral standing, but our economy and national security. Chinese laborers in California were manning the gold rush and building the first transcontinental railroad. In doing so, they provided cheap labor and tax revenue to fill Californias fiscal gap. Mainly young, healthy males, these immigrants made little use of social services and health systems. Still, when the postCivil War economy declined in the 1870s, political leaders embraced and spread anti-Chinese sentiment, blaming the coolies for depressed wage levels. In California and around the country, states passed long-lasting anti-Chinese laws. So did the federal government: Chinese Exclusion Act deprived Western states and Hawaii of needed labor, tax revenues, and citizens available to fight and work during wartime. This kind of erratic, transactional approach to immigration policy has been a defining feature of our relationship with Mexican migrants, which has been marked by spasms of expulsion motivated by political or ethnic antipathy, followed by a re-embrace whenever its perceived as serving Americas economic interests. During the Great Depression, the U.S. government moved to deport Mexican-born workers and American citizens of Mexican descent in order to exclude them from welfare programs under the New Deal. Over one million Mexican nationals were removed in the 1930s. The resulting shortage of agricultural labor prompted a series of short-term deals between the U.S. and Mexico that began under FDR as the Mexican Farm Labor Agreement and were signed into law by President Harry Truman.* The so-called Bracero Program offered legal, temporary work to Mexican migrants in exchange for a guaranteed wage and humane treatment. It was a flop, in part because poor enforcement led employers to seek lower cost undocumented labor elsewhere, but its another example of the correction and collective whoops that often follows immigration policy when its based on bigotry instead of facts, at great cost to the American taxpayer. With the U.S. still mired in conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the demonization of Muslims and people of Middle Eastern descent is equally counterproductive, and potentially even dangerous. This year marked the first time in over a decade that the military has fallen short of its recruiting goals. For years, the military has actively sought talent from ethnic minorities with knowledge of the languages and customs of other nations, bringing immigrants and refugees into the defense community precisely for their burning desire to fight the tyranny and persecution they left behind. Programs like Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest, or MAVNI, welcomed such individuals into the military in exchange for a fast track to citizenship. More than 10,000 people joined the military, mostly the U.S. Army, this way. The program was suspended earlier this year as part of the Trump administrations immigration crackdown. Foreign student enrollment in U.S. universities is down after a decade of growth, sending some of the worlds smartest young minds to countries less hostile to immigrants. Scientists are leaving the U.S., taking up posts in Canada, China and elsewhere. Approvals for H1-B visas, frequently used by high-skilled workers in the tech industry, are down.  These policies are based on straw-man arguments that conflate terrorism with immigration. Of the nearly 800,000 refugees resettled in the United States since 9/11, just three have been arrested for planning terrorist activities. Between 2001 and 2015, more Americans were killed by homegrown right-wing extremists than by Islamist terrorists.When it comes to the economy, a large body of research shows that immigration confers net benefits to society. Indeed, the presidents dehumanizing rhetoric toward immigrants comes at a time when he himself boasts of an economy that is booming like never before. Thats classic Trumpian embellishment, but its true that the economy is growing at a healthy clip, undermining Trumps own assertions that immigrants are hurting the economy. A recent study by Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions concluded that migrants are directly responsible for two thirds of U.S. economic growth since 2011. Delusions about immigrants are hardly limited to the far-right fringe. The same Citi Global study found that across countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, host citizens believed that human flows were far larger, jobs far fewer, and migrants less productive in the labor market than they actually were.  A study by Harvard economists uncovered similar misperceptions. In France, Germany, Italy, the U.K., and the U.S., the average native believed that there are between two and three times as many immigrants as there are in reality. In the U.S., legal immigrants are about 10 percent of the population, but U.S. respondents believed the figure was 30 percent. In all countries, immigrants were viewed as poorer, less educated, and more likely to be unemployed than they actually were, and this was believed to be mainly because of lack of effort rather than adverse circumstances. In all countries except France, respondents overestimated the share of Muslim immigrants by a wide margin. In this age of obfuscation, weve become desensitized to political rhetoric that ignores the facts. One right-wing website, Gateway Pundit, described people in the migrant caravan as invading migrants who are organized into groups and sub-groups like an army. Thats ironic, given our history of supporting paramilitaries in the region. Many of the Central Americans seeking refuge in the U.S. have endured unspeakable violence, much of which can be traced back to U.S. policies in the region during the Cold War. That history has largely been swept under the rug, making it easy for those who traffic in propaganda to absolve America of responsibility and demonize those who have had to bear the fallout of our foreign misadventures. But reality has a way of catching up. In a few decades, America will be a plurality of racial and ethnic minorities. Immigration policies that emphasize exclusion and enforcement wont change that inexorable trend. They will only make us less competitive in the global economy, and strip us of any standing to advocate for the rule of law and human rights around the world.*Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that President Harry Truman introduced the Mexican Farm Labor Agreement. The agreement predated his presidency.	Liberal
With Election Day approaching, an odd little story from Dodge City, Kansas, made headlines in The New York Times and The Washington Post last week. Local elections officials in the Wild West outpost of yore, now a meatpacking center thats majority-Latino, had moved their lone voting place outside the city limits, more than a mile from the nearest bus stop, as anti-immigration crusader Kris Kobachthe state elections chiefwas fighting off a strong Democratic challenge in his quest for the governorship.The whole controversy seemed so obviously outlandishthe kind of over-the-top effort to deter voters of color that could only happen in the Deep South or Kobachs Kansasthat its no wonder the story was catnip for national reporters. While another secretary of state overseeing his own election for governor, Kobachs Georgia ally Brian Kemp, had been garnering scrutiny for months with his massive purges of registered black voters, and while reports on the perils of voter ID laws have become numbingly familiar, the Dodge City tale offered a colorful twist on the theme of race-based voter suppression. The Times editors couldnt resist a cheeky headline for this saga: To Cast Their Ballots, These Voters Will Have to Get Out of Dodge.But the only unusual thing about this story was that it made news at all. Over the past decade, Republican elections officials have been shuttering polling places in minority neighborhoods, low-income districts, and on college campuses at a feverish pace. When Barack Obama was elected president in 2008, the U.S. had more than 132,000 polling places; by the time Donald Trump ascended to the White House, eight years later, more than 15,000 of them had been closed nationwide. After 2013, when the U.S. Supreme Court basically lifted federal Voting Rights Act oversight from states that were particularly notorious for racial discrimination in electionsincluding Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, and Texasthe pace of poll closures went into hyperdrive. Thanks to Shelby County v. Holder, if you ran elections in a majority-black county in Georgia, or a booming Latino neighborhood in Houston, you no longer had to ask the Department of Justice to approve a change in where people could vote, or to prove the intent wasnt discriminatory.While voter ID laws must be passed by lawmakers, guaranteeing news coverage and public debate, its a snap to move or close polling locations. In most states, it can be done unilaterallyall thats required is a local elections board or official with an eye toward giving Republicans an artificial advantage to seize their chance, and then provide some form of public notice. Closing polls or moving them to white neighborhoods (or all the way out of town) is thus the quietest and least visible form of voter suppression. And studies show that it can be startlingly effective in reducing voting rateslargely at the expense of Democrats. In 2018, this insidious form of targeting poor, black, Latino, and young voters could be the hidden factor in delivering a passel of key elections for Congress and governorships to the GOPjust as it boosted Donald Trumps presidential bid in 2016.Stick a pin on any map of marquee midterm races this year, and youll find poll closures targeting Democratic voters. A lot of them. Texas, where Ted Cruz is struggling to fend off Beto ORourkes Senate challengeand where Republicans have long feared the rising tide of young Latinoshas closed more than 400 polling places since 2013, leading the nation in that dubious statistic. Arizona, where Latinos are also threatening the GOPs hegemony and Democrat Krysten Sinema is neck-and-neck against Rep. Martha McSally for Jeff Flakes abandoned Senate seat, has closed 200, outpacing Texas on a per capita basis.In Indiana, where Democratic Senator Joe Donnelly is trying to hold off mini-Trump challenger Mike Braun, more than 20 percent of polling locations have been axed. In North Carolina, Republicans have been more surgical in their approach, zeroing in on toss-up districts like majority-black Mecklenburg County, where young Democrat Dan McCready is trying to wrest away a vacant Republican seat in a tight House race. Mecklenburg is one of six counties in the state in which poll closures reduced black voter turnout by 50 percent or more in 2016.How about Georgia, where Democrat Stacey Abrams is trying to ride an emerging Democratic majority to victory against Kemp and hasten the end of two decades of white Republican dominance? Surprise, surprise: More than 200 polls have closed since the Roberts Court gave the state a green light to discriminate. And as The Atlanta Journal-Constitution revealed this summer (Kemps secretary of state office conveniently keeps no track of the closures), they correlate in near-perfect synchronicity with concentrations of high poverty rates across the statethe places where fewer people have cars to drive to the polls, where public transportation is often non-existent, and where African Americans vote Democratic.The closures in Georgia could, just as surely as Kemps aggressive purges of registered black voters from the rolls, determine the outcome in his dead-heat race with Abrams. This is just pure coincidence, both the secretary of state and local elections officials insistsimply a matter of local Republicans making elections more cost-efficient by consolidating polling places in more convenient white neighborhoods.But the plague of poll closings in Georgia commenced in earnest in 2015, after Kemps office issued a handy guide, formatted Q&A-style, to county officials statewide. Heres how it starts:When should you begin the plan of consolidation or making changes to precincts or polling places? Now.Twice, the document notes, in bold type: As a result of the Shelby vs. Holder Supreme Court decision, you are no longer required to submit polling place changes to the Department of Justice for preclearance. A particularly helpful section offers advice on how to sell the closures to the public, just in case anybody notices whats happening before its too late to protest: You can create a professional well thought out presentation, it says, showing ... how the changes can benefit the voters and public interest. Neat! For every poll closure that raises alarmbefore confused voters encounter them during elections, that ismany more of them tend to slip by, unnoticed and unchallenged. This summer in southwestern Georgia, a flap broke out in rural Randolph County, a vast but sparsely populated majority-black (and majority-Democratic) county, where an election consultant dispatched by Kemps office had advised the local elections board to close seven of nine polling places to save dollars and effort. This would have forced some low-income voters to travel several miles to votean impossibility for many, including folks who couldnt spare so much time away from their jobs or families.The plan was foiled by sharp-eyed former school superintendent and local Democratic Party chair Bobby Jenkins, who spotted the obligatory notice of the pending change in the fine-print legal notices of the local paper. His discovery led to mass protests and threatened lawsuits from civil-rights groups. Kemp, by then running against Abrams and trying to moderate his hard-won image as a virulent white nationalist, backed down. Which was easy enough, because his consultant had already persuaded ten other low-income counties with large black populations to close polling spots this year aloneon top of the hundreds already eliminated between 2013 and 2016.Eight of those shuttered polling places are in Macon-Bibb County, where African Americans protested an even more sweeping round of proposed shutdowns in 2015 and warded off a few. Before civil-rights groups found out and raised a fuss, local elections officer Tom Gillon had intended to close 14 of the countys 40 voting precincts, all in majority-black neighborhoods.Like his Republican peers across the country, Gillon expressed dismay at the idea that this could be motivated by a desire to create new obstacles for particular voters. That was the last thing we would consider as a reason for doing that, he protested. If the county had more money for us, wed open up more polling places. Wed be happy to do that, but we have a county government whose budget is very strapped right now. The intended savings, he said, would amount to $40,000 a yearabout $3,000 for every proposed poll closure. The countys annual budget is $161 million.Few elections officials are as bracingly honest about their intentions as former Republican legislator Mike Bennett, who became supervisor of elections in Floridas Manatee County after long lines had discouraged a lot of local voters in 2012. Long lines, often caused by consolidating several polling places into one, have been shown to discourage voters just as much as increased distances and lack of transportation. But Bennett set out to make them even longer by closing as many polling places as possible30 percent of the countys total. Hed already made his reasoning crystal clear: Why would we make it any easier? I want em to fight for it, Bennett said in a 2011 speech, before being term-limited out of the legislature. I want the people of the state of Florida to want to vote as bad as that person in Africa whos willing to walk 200 miles.Black and Latino voters in Manatee werent willing to go to such lengths, as it turned out; a University of Florida study showed that their turnout dropped by 3 and 5 percent, respectively, after Bennetts mass poll closures.Back when Georgia started picking off black voters polling places in 2013, Stacey Abrams was the minority leader of the state Houseand knew exactly what was happening. If you want to restrict voter turnout in minority and disadvantaged communities, a good way is to move a polling place somewhere they cant get to, she said at the time.Now Abrams, in her epic faceoff against her longtime voting-rights foe Kemp, has to overcome not only this form of voter suppression, but also one of the nations most restrictive voter ID regimes and the accompanying scourge of voter purges if she wants to become the first black governor of Georgia. Her campaign has spent a great deal of energy and resources to encourage folks to use mail-in absentee ballots and vote early, to avoid being discouraged by long lines on Election Day. (Abrams herself voted early, driving the point home.)Democrats in Georgia have responded to the call, voting early in record numbers. Whether thatll be enough to overcome the advantage Kemp has built in eight years of using every trick in the voter-suppressing book will be revealed on Election Night, when the secretary of state himself will certify a winner in a race that polls show as a statistical tie.But even if poll closures dont provide swing-state Republicans the margins of victory they hope for this year, theres no question well see a whole new raft of them between now and 2020. While some Democrats were slow to catch up to the reality that targeted poll closures can lower turnout just as effectively as voter ID laws, gerrymanders, and voter purges, Republicans have known it and wielded it for years. Indianas Republican secretary of state, Connie Lawsonwho has unusual power to close local precincts herselfhas already announced that shell be shuttering a stunning 170 majority-Democratic polling places for 2020 in Lake County, the states largest and home to three of its biggest black populations in East Chicago, Hammond, and Gary.It is just so Jim Crow, Carol Anderson, Emory professor and author of a new book on voter suppression, One Person, No Vote, told me recently. How does this happen without it flaring it up more often as it did in Randolph County in Georgia? Its the way its cloaked in legalese, buried in the local newspaper, looking to anyone who happens to notice it like just another routine bureaucratic change.When we think about old-style voter suppression, Anderson continued, we often think about the violence, the clash on the Pettus Bridge, the murders of folks like Herbert Lee and Louis Allen, who were working to get people to register to vote. But Jim Crow operated under the legal system. Thats what we miss. The laws, the poll taxes, the literacy teststhey all had the aura of legitimacy. What we have today, with poll closures done in the interest of streamlining and saving taxpayer money, is no less pernicious. And no less pervasive. 	Liberal
Its less than a week until Election Day, and Donald Trump is scared. Most polls indicate that Democrats are poised to retake the House of Representatives. From there, theyll be able to unleash a wave of oversight investigations into scandals that his Republican allies in Congress have largely squelched or ignored. Its less likely that Democrats will also win back the Senate, but if so, theyll have veto power over every one of Trumps judicial and executive nominees until 2020.Republicans are struggling to make the case for retaining power after two years of unified control of the government. The presidents party usually loses seats during the first midterm election, and the unpopularity of both Trump and the GOPs legislative agenda isnt helping. Not only did the Affordable Care Act largely survive an all-out push to repeal it, but many Republican lawmakers are now being forced to defend their votes to strip coverage requirements for people with pre-existing conditions. Most voters also rightly think that the GOPs tax-cut package, once touted as a near-certain midterms boon, was simply a handout to the rich and powerful.Thus, Trump is trying a different message with voters: a virulent mlange of nationalism and authoritarianism, largely centered on the caravan of several thousand migrants traveling toward the U.S. from Central America. He has likened the caravan to a foreign invasion, and is using it to justify extraordinary measures. He ordered more than 5,000 troops to the border with Mexico on Monday, though their mission is limited and largely theatrical. Hes also reportedly mulling an executive order to close the southern border to asylum-seekers.Then came Tuesdays news. Trump is considering an executive order that would unilaterally reinterpret the Fourteenth Amendment to scrap birthright citizenship, a bedrock principle of post-emancipation American democracy. It was always told to me that you needed a constitutional amendment, he told a reporter. Guess what? You dont.Elected officials have a habit of over-promising and under-delivering during campaign season, but Trumps moves over the past two weeks go far beyond that. Hes deployed the military within the U.S. against a phantasmal threat. After one of his supporters was arrested for sending mail bombs to his political adversaries, the president responded by warning that he could tone up his rhetoric even further. Now hes asserting the power to single-handedly narrow the definitionand thus the protectionsof American citizenship. In effect, Trump is posing a question to the American electorate: What level of racist authoritarianism are you willing to accept?Any attack on birthright citizenship in particular should set off klaxons about American democracy. Republican politicians have long railed against the practice because it also applies to undocumented immigrants who have children on U.S. soil. During the 2016 elections, multiple GOP presidential candidates suggested that they could take steps to curtail it in some fashion through legislation. Michael Anton, a former Trump national-security aide, took it a step further earlier this year by asserting in a Washington Post op-ed that the president could instruct the federal government to disregard birthright citizenship by executive fiat.Anton is not a legal scholar, and it showed. The Fourteenth Amendments Citizenship Clause is short and unequivocal: All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. Anton argues that undocumented immigrants dont qualify because they are not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. But legal scholars widely agree that that provision was meant to exclude the children of foreign diplomats, who enjoy immunity from U.S. laws and therefore arent generally subject to federal jurisdiction.Another argument raised by Anton is that the Fourteenth Amendments drafters never meant for the Citizenship Clause to apply to undocumented immigrants in general. Their conversations during the ratification debate suggest otherwise. Nothing in text or history suggests that the drafters intended to draw distinctions between different categories of aliens, former Texas Solicitor General James Ho wrote in a 2006 analysis of the drafters views of the clause. To the contrary, text and history confirm that the Citizenship Clause reaches all persons who are subject to U.S. jurisdiction and laws, regardless of race or alienage. Ho is no left-wing firebrand, either: Trump successfully nominated him to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals earlier this year.Many portions of the Constitution are subject to considerable debate and interpretation by the American legal community. The Citizenship Clause isnt one of them. In the 1898 case U.S. v. Wong Kim Ark, the Supreme Court ruled that the son of two Chinese immigrants who was born on U.S. soil had automatically received American citizenship at birth, even though the Chinese Exclusion Act meant that his parents could never acquire it themselves. That ruling remains the law of the land 120 years later. No subsequent ruling has challenged its expansive view of the clause, and few legal scholars have ever disputed the prevailing consensus on it.Beyond the flawed legal arguments is a much more disturbing perspective on American citizenship. The Citizenship Clause was partially designed to overturn the Supreme Courts notorious 1857 ruling in Dred Scott v. Sandford, which held that descendants of African slaves could never become U.S. citizens. The Radical Republicans who drafted the Fourteenth Amendment hoped to build a truly multiracial democracy on the ashes of the slaver aristocracy that had lost the Civil War. They sought to roll back racist state laws passed after emancipation that tried to restore the old order with a new face. The Fourteenth Amendment exists to ensure that American citizenship is forever removed from the realm of public debate, that its rights and protections would never again depend on the fleeting whims of a transitory electoral majority.Establishing a universal baseline for citizenship pushed the country far closer toward the ideal of an American citizenry that transcends race, class, and caste. Trump and his allies are hostile to that notion, to say the least. As president, hes made common cause with white nationalists and embraced a blood-and-soil view of nationality. Its no secret that Trumps immigration policies are rooted in antipathy for non-white immigrants. Why are we having all these people from shithole countries come here? he allegedly asked lawmakers in January at the White House in January when they discussed deportations for long-term immigrants from Haiti and some African countries. Why do we need more Haitians? Trump added. Take them out.In this worldview, a caravan of migrants fleeing violence and hardship in Central America isnt a test of Americas compassion or even just a matter best handled by existing asylum laws. Its a demographic threat to the American polity. Trump and his allies have instead wielded every ancient trope used to denigrate would-be immigrants. Fox News hosts and guests have wondered aloud if they would bring infectious diseases into the country. Trump baselessly asserted that there were some bad people among them, including hardened criminals. He also warned about the presence of unknown Middle Easterners, an apparent racist shorthand for terrorists, before later admitting he had no proof. (Reporters on the ground with the caravan have described a diverse, unthreatening crowd of men, women, and children of all ages.)Inflaming these hatreds can have deadly consequences. In recent weeks, Republican lawmakers and the conservative media ecosystem pushed a narrative that the caravan had been encouraged by Democratic officials, liberal activists, and billionaire investor George Soros to disrupt the midterms. Last week, federal agents arrested an ardent Trump supporter who allegedly sent mail bombs to Soros, the homes of two former presidents, and almost a dozen other political adversaries of the president. On Saturday, a white-nationalist gunman in Pittsburgh posted online that he couldnt sit by while a Jewish nonprofit group continued to bring invaders in that kill our people. He then stormed into a nearby synagogue and killed eleven people.The wave of violence and attempted assassinations have not deterred Trump. If anything, hes grown bolder in his efforts to impose a narrower, ethnocentric vision on the bounds of American civic life. By insisting that he can revise the Constitutions definition of citizenship through an executive order, the president is assuming unprecedented authority to decide who is and isnt an American. Next weeks elections will technically determine the future composition of the House, the Senate, and of state governments. They may also decide the future composition of America itself.	Liberal
The midterm elections next week could be the most consequential in modern U.S. history. But a staggering number of young people arent planning to vote in them. To figure out why, New York magazine interviewed 12 conscious non-voters ranging in age from 21 to 29 years old, and published the results on Tuesday. They were not well-received. "Why should I vote for a party that doesnt really do anything for me as a voter?"Well, why should a party do anything for you if you don't vote? Do you think sitting it out is going to change things? They'll suddenly care about your issues because...?https://t.co/2eT4tM1vtzMost of the voters explanations read like lazy excuses (or excuses for laziness). I had a hectic schedule, said Laura, 21, on why she didnt register to vote. I just didnt have the time and energy. Some said they didnt know enough about political issues to feel confident casting a vote. Others said they werent sure how to register or vote in the first place."Honestly, if someone had the forms printed for me and was willing to deal with the post office, Id be much more inclined to vote." God help us all. https://t.co/eVkI4QAziJThe most disheartening response, however, was from Adam, a 25-year-old former Bernie Sanders volunteer who is registered to vote and knowledgable about politics. The issue, he said, is that mainstream Democrats arent exciting. And Adam doesnt believe most Democratic Party politicians will make any difference in solving the problems he cares aboutspecifically, climate change.I look at it this way, Adam said. That report just came out the other day about global warming, talking about how we have 12 years, until 2030, for this radical change unlike the world has ever seen. And The Hill newspaper just put out that article about how the DNC does not plan on making climate change a big part of their platform, even still.I just do not understand why I would vote for a party that doesnt care about me in any way, he added. They can say, Sure, well lower student interest rates. Well, I dont give a shit about student interest rates if Im not going to live past 13 more years on this planet.Adams frustration is valid. As a whole, the Democratic Party has never treated climate change with the urgency it deserves. Its leaders have also given no indication that the party will work aggressively to solve the problem if voters elect Democratic majorities to both the House and Senate next week.But Adams defeatismhis idea that humanity is doomed no matter which party controls the governmentis based on a misunderstanding of the climate problem. The report he cites does not actually say that everyone is going to die by the year 2030. It doesnt even say humans have twelve years until the fight is over. It says humans have twelve years to implement changes that will limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Warming of 1.5 Celsius is very bad, but its not as bad as 2 degrees or 3 degrees. And its nowhere near as deadly and catastrophic as warming of 4 or 5 degrees, which are plausible scenarios if we allow fossil fuel companies to continue spewing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.Many political issues are complicated. But on climate, the parties differences are relatively simple: The Republican Partys political platform rests on allowing fossil fuel companies to continue emitting uncheckedeven removing existing regulationsin perpetuity. The Democratic Partys political platform does not. Their platform may not have a comprehensive plan to solve climate change, but it has emissions regulations and renewable energy investments. Most importantly, it acknowledges the reality of catastrophic global warming, and the need to reduce it and adapt to it. Humans are no longer voting to preserve our current climate. Were deciding whether, in 50 years, the situation will be apocalyptic or merely pretty bad. The former is guaranteed if Republicans remain in charge and continue to deny that humans cause climate change. The latter is still possible, with the right people in power. That may not be the exciting reason to vote that Adam is looking for. But its an incredibly high-stakes and meaningful one nonetheless.	Liberal
President Donald Trump announced on Monday he would send 5,200 military troops to the southern border as a means of discouraging the 3,500-person migrant caravan inching its way toward the U.S. from Central America. Its a transparently political ploy aimed at next weeks midterm electionsand an absurd one, given that the caravan is hardly a national security issue and certainly nothing that requires thousands of armed soldiers. But in hindsight, it was also inevitable. Trump and right-wingers turned the migrant caravan into an election issue with their hysteria about unknown Middle Easterners, leprosy, and the malevolent hidden hand of George Soros. Having manufactured a crisis, Trump is now attempting to show hes solving itwith a meaningless show of force.But as he was traveling the country fear-mongering about the caravan, Trump faced two crises that he had no control over. On Friday, Cesar Sayoc, a Trump fanatic, was arrested for allegedly sending more than a dozen pipe bombs to Trumps favorite Democratic targets. A day later, an anti-Semite motivated by the relentless conspiracy-theorizing associated with the caravan murdered 11 people in a Pittsburgh synagogue. But Trump has barely paid lip service to these events. He called the massacre a wicked act of mass murder and pure evil, then used it to promote the death penalty and armed guards. As for the mail bombs, he complained that they were a political distraction:Republicans are doing so well in early voting, and at the polls, and now this Bomb stuff happens and the momentum greatly slows - news not talking politics. Very unfortunate, what is going on. Republicans, go out and vote!This fits a familiar pattern over the first two years of Trumps presidency. He embraces crises of his own making, using them to cast political blame and to promote himself as a problem-solver. But he distances himself from those he cannot control, such as hurricanes, mass shootings, and administration scandals, because he is incapable of exhibiting moral leadership or accepting personal responsibility. Thus, next weeks elections are, among other things, a referendum on reality: Do voters believe Trumps fever dream about an immigrant invasion of the U.S., or are they worried about real crises across the country?Trumps two most memorable and characteristic speeches were built on right-wing fantasies. In accepting the Republican nomination for president in 2016, Trump borrowed from Richard Nixons 1968 presidential campaign and called for a return to law-and-order. He tied Hillary Clinton to a supposed three-decade push to erase Americas borders, impoverish its citizens, and engulf the country in violence. Every day I wake up determined to deliver for the people I have met all across this nation that have been neglected, ignored and abandoned, Trump said. The legacy of Hillary Clinton is death, destruction, terrorism and weakness. The only way to reverse this crisis? Elect Donald Trump. I alone can fix it, he said.Trumps American Carnage speech at his inauguration in early 2017 was the capstone of his political project. Over the course of an hour, he portrayed America as a wasteland of abandoned factories for companies that had moved overseas; of supposed allies that were robbing America blind on trade and whose citizens were swarming into the country, stealing jobs; of terrorists on the march across the Middle East and Europe, readying strikes against the U.S. The only thing standing in the way of all of these forces was Trump. This American carnage stops here and stops now, he said. George W. Bush was right when he said the speech was some weird shit. Trumps words ignored basic data about the economy, which was very much on the upswing, and about unemployment and crime, which were both on the decline. He inflated the danger of undocumented immigrants and the threat of terrorism. But the speech was a manifesto outlining Trumps nascent political strategy, which was to create crises and then ride wall-to-wall media coveragewhich often drowns out more substantive issuesas long as possible.The firing of FBI Director James Comey, the withdrawal from the Iran deal, the renegotiation of NAFTA, the threats of nuclear strikes against North Korea, the levying of tariffs against some of Americas closest allies: Trump has repeatedly created crises where there were none or inflated existing risks. He has flouted the advice of experts of all stripes in order to engender the kinds of crises that he believes will resonate with his base. As The Atlantics David Graham argued earlier this year, Trump instinctively understands that he can only win when hes seen as a last resort against extreme chaos. Only in a moment of disaster would [voters] gamble on Trump, Graham wrote. Besides, Trump himself would be deadly bored if everything was going well.When presented with real carnage, whether in Pittsburgh or Puerto Rico, Trump balks. Recently, the bombs that had been sent to his political enemies were particularly frustrating because they minimized his ability to control the news cycle by saying and tweeting outrageous things. The momentum was clearly on the Republican side, Eric Bolling told The Daily Beast. I dont know that this is going to change anything, but certainly as much as President Trump is campaigning  for the news story to derail, I dont know that that is frustrating him but I would suspect that that is something behind it. Never one to take responsibilityor to lead on difficult issues, particularly ones that reflect poorly on his own supportersTrump sees tragedies as liabilities to be minimized. Instead, he embraces a kind of political rope-a-dope, relentlessly flogging other issues until the media moves on to the next shiny object.Trump has tried this repeatedly as the midterms approach. With media coverage dominated by the recent surge in right-wing violence and the expectations of a Democratic blue wave, he has ratcheted up his rhetoric. He suggested that he and congressional Republicans are prepared to pass a 10 percent tax cut for middle-income Americans and told Axios that he would revoke birthright citizenship by executive order, even though both are impossible to do before the midterm electionsand are close to impossible to do at all. He has suggested, again and again, that the Democratic mob will gut Medicare if elected, despite the fact that his administration has done much to damage entitlements and increase health care costs. Above all, he has flogged the caravan as an immediate threat to American safety and sovereignty.For Trump and Republicans, the caravan is a potent metaphor for an America overrun by violent immigrants. As the caravan has made its way toward America, Trump has relentlessly followed its progress and now is deploying troops to the bordernearly twice as many as the U.S. has in Syriain anticipation of its arrival. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, deployed to Texas in a blatant publicity stunt, was asked by Fox News if American soldiers were prepared to use force to stop the caravan. We do not have any intention right now to shoot at people, she replied, to no ones relief. Meanwhile, right-wing commentators and politicians have pushed the idea that billionaire Democratic donor George Soros, one of Sayocs targets, is funding the caravan.Many Gang Members and some very bad people are mixed into the Caravan heading to our Southern Border. Please go back, you will not be admitted into the United States unless you go through the legal process. This is an invasion of our Country and our Military is waiting for you!Typically, one would expect a more ebullient message from an incumbent president amid a robust economy, or at least a message built partly on the progress of a young administration. Trump has done exactly the opposite, building a campaign message around a series of fabricated national crises. He thrives on chaos and hate but acts aggrieved when confronted with the real-world consequences of his behavior. Asked about Sayoc at a Friday press conference, Trump deflected, saying, Theres no blame. Theres no anything. Then he spent the weekend blaming Democrats and the media for everything he could think of.	Liberal
Jair Bolsonaro, the far-right nationalist who on Sunday was elected Brazils new president, has been called the Brazilian Trump. But hes more extreme than that. His rhetoric is more explicitly violent and bigoted, and his rule threatens more than just the fourth-largest democracy in the world. The livability of the entire planet is at stake.The Amazon rainforest, more than half of which is within Brazils borders, covers 4 percent of the earths surface and is a major regulator of the worlds climate. Its trees act as a sponge for carbon dioxide, absorbing the planet-warming gas from the atmosphere and re-emitting it as oxygen.But Bolsonaro, according to HuffPost, has committed to stop demarcating indigenous lands in the Amazon and further open the forest to mining interests. And he has pledged to loosen regulatory regimes over land-use and deforestation in the worlds largest tropical rainforest. He also has strong ties to Brazilian agribusiness leaders who push for deforestation to make room for farming. He has said hell keep Brazil in the Paris climate agreement, but only if he can maintain control of the Amazon.This is worth repeating over and over:The most horrific thing Brazil's new president, Jair Bolsonaro, has planned is privatization of the Amazon rainforest. With just 12yr remaining to remake the global economy and prevent catastrophic climate change, this is planetary suicide.Many are now worried that Bolsonaros presidency could result in an accelerated deforestation of the rainforest, which would mean huge increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide and an acceleration of climate change. Scientists from Brazils National Institute for Space Research wrote earlier this month that Bolsonaro could do extreme damage to the global climate. Under Bolsonaros proposed policies, from 2021 to 2030, accumulated emissions from clear cutting Amazon forest would attain 13.12 gigatons of carbon dioxide equivalent, they wrote. That number is staggeringequivalent to approximately 3 percent of global emissions, and approximately 20 percent of the remaining amount of carbon humans can release before catastrophic impacts begin.Deforestation in Brazil has already played a huge role in the current climate crisis. In 2005, the countrys portion of the Amazon had the highest deforestation rate in the world. Because of that, Brazil is one of the largest contributors to global warming compared to other countrieseither the fifth- or sixth-biggest historical emitter, depending on the estimate. Any successful effort to slow climate change thus must include the country, toward the goal of preserving its climate-regulating rainforest.The country has proven itself capable of acting in the worlds best interest. In 2005, officials realized how crucial their rainforest was to preserving a livable climate, and decided to stop massive rates of deforestation. Less than a decade later, in 2014, scientists reported that the country had reduced its deforestation rate by 70 percentall while increasing agricultural production of beef and soy, two of the regions most lucrative biggest products. Brazils deforestation reduction efforts likely bought the climate a little bit of time. According to National Geographic, the cuts had the effect of taking all the cars in the U.S. off the road for more than three years. And while the countrys progress eventually sloweddeforestation rates have been climbing since 2014that time hasnt run out yet. After all, around 80 percent of the Amazon has yet to be chopped down.	Liberal
Several prominent conservatives initially responded to a wave of mail bombs sent to President Donald Trumps critics last week with literal disbelief. Fake bombs, fake news, Lou Dobbs, a Fox Business News anchor, wrote on Twitter. Who could possibly benefit from so much fakery? On Twitter last Wednesday, Turning Point USAs Candace Owens opined that the only thing suspicious about these packages is the timing and suggested it was a leftist plot to win the midterms. She deleted those tweets, and two days later hosted an event with the president.The bombs targeted the Obamas and the Clintons, multiple black lawmakers, top Democratic donors, former intelligence officials who have criticized Trump, and CNNall of whom Trump and other top Republicans have regularly attacked. But many on the right refused to draw the obvious connection. Republicans just dont do this kind of thing, Rush Limbaugh asserted on his radio show on Wednesday. Dinesh DSouza, a conservative filmmaker, posted a fake Peanuts comic on Twitter that mocked the bombs purported origins. Why do you say they were Democrat bombs? Lucy asks. Because NONE of them WORKED, Linus replies.Conspiracy theories have long flourished on the nations political fringes. Infowars Alex Jones and other right-wing conspiracy theorists have posited that the U.S. government orchestrated the September 11 attacks and that gun-control advocates carried out school shootings to further their agenda. Trump himself became a leading figure on the American right by questioning whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. But last weeks wave of outright denial by conservatives was still stunning by modern standards.Theres a grim historical precedent in America for such aggressive skepticism of the causes of political violence. Today its universally recognized as historical fact that the Ku Klux Klan was responsible for a reign of terror throughout the South during Reconstruction. But many contemporary newspapers and politicians openly doubted the truth about the Klans purported mission, its crimes, even its very existence. The various motivations for this campaign of denialism are all too familiar todayand more worryingly, it worked.Elaine Frantz Parsons, a historian who studied the organization, noted in her 2015 book, Ku-Klux: The Birth of the Klan During Reconstruction, that Klan denialism shaped public perceptions of the group as well as the responses to it. While journalists and federal officials went to great lengths to document the groups atrocities, the national debate over the Klan failed to move beyond the simple question of the Klans existence, she wrote. Skepticism about the Ku-Klux even in the fact of abundant proof of the Ku-Kluxs existence endured and thrived, perhaps because people on all sides of the eras partisan conflicts at times found ambiguity about the Ku-Klux desirable and productive, Parsons wrote.There was overwhelming evidence to refute the denialists claims. Klansmen routinely engaged in murder, rape, and other forms of violence that left behind scars, corpses, and witnesses. Larger cells carried out massacres and skirmished with local militias and federal troops. The Justice Department, which was founded in 1870 to enforce federal anti-Klan laws, prosecuted and convicted hundreds of its members in public trials.But still the denial persisted. Perhaps the most dramatic example came in 1872, when a joint congressional committee published a thirteen-volume report on Klan activities and trials in the Southern states. Lawmakers questioned witnesses in multiple states and drew upon testimony from them and the anti-Klan trials, aiming to produce a comprehensive and definitive account of the crisis. The majority report concluded that the Klan did exist, that many of its members had evaded punishment for their crimes, and that the terror inspired by their acts, as well as the public sentiment in their favor in many localities, paralyzes the arm of civil power.The committees Democratic members, however, were extremely skeptical toward every claim of Klan violence that came before them. In their minority report, they ultimately took the head-spinning position that the Souths white citizenry were the real victims. Black freedmen and their white allies, who were being regularly murdered throughout the region, were cast as the real aggressors. The atrocious measures by which millions of white people have been put at the mercy of the semi-barbarous negroes of the South, and the vilest of the white people, both from the North and the South, who have been constituted the leaders of this black horde, are now sought to be justified and defended by defaming the people upon whom this unspeakable outrage has been committed, the committee members wrote. To white supremacists, building a multiracial democracy was tantamount to violence.The episode underscored the stark partisan divide over the Klan, as well as the ways that Democrats had turned the groups ephemeral nature against its opponents. In this way, what was arguably the most ambitious investigative effort to that point on the part of the U.S. Congress, enormously expensive, time-consuming, and carefully arranged to be meaningfully bipartisan, was abruptly rejected by Klan skeptics in its entirety, Parsons wrote. It is hard to imagine what possible body of evidence might have stood up to such summary dismissal. Southern Democratic newspapers, she noted, also took part in the campaign of denial.A Georgia paper screeched in November 1871 that the Klan has existence only in the imaginations of President Grant and the vile politicians who have poisoned his ears with false and malicious reports... The reports of collisions between armed bands of Ku-klux and federal troops are utterly false, base, and slanderous fabrication, uttered for a purpose. Rather than retreat and regroup as more evidence slammed their position, those who were invested in believing that there was not a pattern of extreme violence against southern Republicans stood firm. As the Daily Augustus Gazette reported summing up the Ku-Klux trials, And now, after all this has been done, and after the expenditure of a vast amount of the public money, a skeptical public are less disposed than ever to believe in the existence of a Ku-Klux organization. True, numbers of prisoners when brought to trial have confessed. and there has been an unlimited supply of evidence to the same effect taken, but it could not deceive anyone who desired to know the truth of the matter.Klan denialism and skepticism took root in a civic soil that was primed to receive it. Americans in the post-Civil War era lived in a changing information ecosystem thanks to technological advances and logistical changes brought about by the conflict. The average citizen had access to a steady stream of information from newspapers, telegraphs, and word of mouth among an increasingly transitory public. Editors and newspaper owners still operated as partisan actors, Parsons noted, but the surge in newsworthy information forced them to decide what to print and what to omit. These changes gave some Americans a new reason to distrust sensational information that they came across and question why certain stories were presented to them.Some Americans of the era may have genuinely struggled with the idea that such a group could exist. Others downplayed its acts or discredited its victims for political purposes: Democratic politicians and newspapers aimed to undermine President Ulysses S. Grant and the Radical Republicans to weaken support for their Reconstruction policies. Liberal Republicans, led by New York publisher Horace Greeley, turned toward Klan skepticism in their bid to reassert control over the party. And Northern journalists sometimes veered into sensationalism when covering the Klans acts, a habit that made it harder for Americans to distinguish between genuine accounts of Klan savagery and fictional ones.It was a particularly ugly display of human nature, and the worst thing about it was precisely that it was not in the least mysterious, Parsons concluded. Ku-Klux and their suffering victims were all too human and all too plainly visible to anyone who had the fortitude to look. Folding Reconstruction-era violence into the Ku-Klux, imagining it as spectral, ambiguous, and indeterminate, enabled Americans to turn away from that unjust reality and all of the political implications and obligations that it entailed.There is no official death toll for the eras spasmodic violence, which continued through other groups following the Klans decline after federal enforcement peaked in 1872. Contemporary estimates ran high: Robert Smalls, a black congressman and hero of the Civil War, told South Carolinas constitutional convention in 1895 that 53,000 African Americans had been murdered throughout the South since emancipation. Whats easier to ascertain is that assassinations, massacres, and intimidation by the Klan and other groups worked. Reconstruction did not fail; in regions where it collapsed it was violently overthrown by men who had fought for slavery during the Civil War and continued that battle as guerrilla partisans over the next decade, historian Douglas R. Egerton wrote in The Wars of Reconstruction. Democratic movements can be halted through violence.Political violence by right-wing and white supremacist groups is nowhere near as widespread today, of course. But it still exists. Republican elected officials and conservative media outlets spent the Obama years downplaying the growing threat. In 2009, a Department of Homeland Security analysis warned about a possible uptick in right-wing violence after the Great Recession began. Republicans responded by successfully pressuring the department to rescind the report.Trumps election only emboldened the most extreme elements of American society, and he appears to welcome the phenomenon. He frequently signals to his supporters that his disavowals of white-nationalist groups and other right-wing racists are not genuine. After a white-nationalist march in Charlottesville turned deadly last summer, he declared that there were some very fine people on both sides. Political figures across the ideological spectrum condemned his remarks, but white nationalists responded with joy. David Duke, a former leader of the Klans modern incarnation, praised Trump for his courage.The presidents rhetoric reached its logical conclusion on Saturday when a gunman murdered eleven Jewish worshippers at a Pittsburgh synagogue. Robert Bowers, the alleged killer, had invoked anti-Semitic conspiracy theories online. HIAS likes to bring invaders in that kill our people, he wrote on Gab, a social networking platform thats popular among white nationalists, shortly before the massacre. I cant sit by and watch my people get slaughtered. Screw your optics, Im going in. HIAS, originally known as the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society, is a Jewish nonprofit group that helps bring refugees to the United States. Its a common conspiracy theory among white nationalists that Jewish people are trying to replace Americas white population with nonwhite immigrants. Trump and his allies have espoused variants of this theory, often centered on Jewish billionaire and Democratic donor George Soros, who was among last weeks mail-bomb targets. The president has frequently hyped the migrant caravan traveling toward the U.S. as a purported threat to American security and even falsely asserted that Middle Eastern individuals were among the migrants, with the racist implication that they were terrorists.Trump responded to Saturdays shooting in Pittsburgh by condemning this wicked act of mass murder and anti-Semitism in general, but a day later he shifted responsibility for the bloodshed to mainstream news outlets.The Fake News is doing everything in their power to blame Republicans, Conservatives and me for the division and hatred that has been going on for so long in our Country. Actually, it is their Fake & Dishonest reporting which is causing problems far greater than they understand!Denial can take many forms. On Monday morning, as her boss faced accusations that hes culpable for the violence, White House adviser Kellyanne Conway tried to craft an alternative explanation for it. The anti-religiosity in this country that is somehow in vogue and funny, to make fun of anybody of faith, to be constantly making fun of people who express religion, the late night comedians, the unfunny people on TV showsits always anti-religious, she told Fox and Friends. These people were gunned down in their place of worship, as were the people in South Carolina a couple of years ago, and they were there because theyre people of faith, and its that faith that needs to bring them together. This is no time to be driving God out of the public square.Conways proposition is unmoored from reality. Dylann Roof, the young white man who murdered nine black parishioners in a Charleston church in 2015, left a racist manifesto online before the shooting. The common theme between these acts of violence is white nationalism, not late-night comedians.In many ways, Trump is unlike any other president who came before him. But his approach to American politics is not wholly without precedent. Theres nothing new or special about his use of denialism, falsehoods, and bad-faith attempts to shift blame onto his political adversaries. Reconstructions failure shows that national campaigns to deceive and mislead the public about white-nationalist violence have worked before. This country is about to find out whether they will work again.	Liberal
Heres what the post-midterms world might look like: Democrats control the House by a decent margin. But they pick up just one seat in the Senate, allowing Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to exploit that more powerful legislative body to guard the White House. (Both electoral outcomes are likely, according to predictions.) Then, before special counsel Robert Mueller has the chance to reveal any of the work his team has been quietly doing during the campaign season, President Donald Trump finds a way to end or severely curtail Muellers investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.Trumps boldest move would be to fire Mueller himself. Shortly after Mueller was appointed in May 2017, Trumps team claimed that the special counsel had conflicts of interestclaims that Trump might use to justify firing him. More recently, Trump has complained that the investigationwhich by special counsel standards has barely begunhas gone on too long. If Trump is planning on firing Mueller, hes most likely to do it right after the election, since it will take two months before the new Congress is sworn in and any political consequences will be delayed.If Trump does not want to fire Mueller directly, he could derail the investigation in a couple ways. He could replace Muellers supervisor, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Rosenstein has forced Mueller to spin off unrelated parts of the investigation, but for the most part has permitted Mueller to proceed as he wishes, much to the chagrin of the White House. If Rosenstein were fired and no other staff shake-ups were made, his automatic replacement would likely be Solicitor General Noel Francisco, who has previously accused the FBI of overreach and claimed that former FBI Director James Comey, who was fired by Trump over the Russia affair, had shielded Hillary Clinton from possible prosecution. Democrats worry that an empowered Francisco could fire Mueller himself.Alternately, Trump could convince Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who has recused himself from the Russia investigation, to resign. Trump could replace him immediately with either Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar or Department of Transportation General Counsel Steven Bradbury, both Senate-approved officials who could take over temporarily under the Vacancies Reform Act. Both are reportedly under consideration to replace Sessions; both could fire Mueller if named attorney general.Finally, Trump might even carry out a Wednesday Morning Massacre, working his way through the Department of Justice until someone decides theyll back a claim that Mueller has engaged in misconductthen use that accusation to justify firing him directly.That would leave the new Democratic majority in the House as the chief means of carrying on the Mueller investigation. What could Democrats actually accomplish?There are three main elements to a Mueller-less Russia investigation: 1) what Democrats could investigate whether or not Mueller is fired; 2) what they would be missing if Mueller were to be axed; and 3) what Democrats can salvage from an aborted investigation. Lets take them in turn.In a recent op-ed in The Washington Post, Rep. Adam Schiff of California promised that if he were to become chair of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence under a Democratic majority, the committee would provide a full accounting of Russias entanglements with the Trump campaign and Trump White House. He said the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, under Rep. Elijah Cummingss leadership, would address how Trump is profiting off the presidency, indicating that that committee would investigate Trumps possible violation of the Emoluments Clause, which prohibits the president from receiving payments from foreign governments. These payments may include those made to Trumps inauguration committee, some of which came from Russian donors.Schiff also suggested that the House Judiciary Committee would focus on potential abuse of the pardon power [and] attacks on the rule of law, which could include Trumps daily attacks on the FBI, his tampering in FBI investigations, and the pardons he reportedly floated to his former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn and one-time campaign chief Paul Manafort, before both entered plea agreements and started cooperating with Mueller.Schiff suggested his own committee would examine Russian financial influence over the president, which could cover Trumps various business dealings in Russia. But its also likely that the Financial Services Committee, under Rep. Maxine Waters of California, would conduct much of that work. In March, Schiff and the other Democrats on the Intelligence Committee released a status report naming witnesses Republicans had refused to call in their own cursory probes into Russias ties to the White House. These witnesses included White House aides Stephen Miller and Keith Kellogg, as well as former administration officials like former Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and K.T. McFarland, who served under Flynn. Between them, these witnesses could provide more insight into the Trump campaigns interest in pursuing a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, as well as into whether Russians were offering stolen emails from the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee in exchange for such meetings. The witnesses could also shed light on Trumps personal involvement in Mike Flynns reassurances to Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, during the presidential transition in December 2016, that the Trump administration would seek to reverse Obama-era sanctions on Russia. Schiff said he could also call Roman Beniaminov, who worked with Rob Goldstone, the music promoter who first set up the Trump Tower meeting in June 2016 in which Donald Trump Jr. sought to obtain dirt on Hillary Clinton. Beniaminov learned in advance that Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya would be dealing some negative information on Clinton. Democrats would also call witnesses related to the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which the Trump-affiliated firm gained access to the data of millions of Facebook users. Those witnesses could provide insight into how the Trump campaign exploited Facebooks personal data to suppress certain kinds of voters in 2016. The legal concern here is two-fold: first, whether Cambridge Analytica employees from the U.K. worked for Trump illegally in the United States; second, whether Trumps PAC, where some of those employees worked, coordinated improperly with the campaign. Given reports that Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix had discussions with billionaire Trump supporter Rebekah Mercer about optimizing the release of the emails stolen by Russia, Democrats would also inquire whether Cambridge Analytica exploited data stolen by Russians.Perhaps the most incendiary testimony could relate to how Russians Aleksandr Torshin and Maria Butina, with the assistance of Republican operative Paul Erickson, used the National Rifle Association as a vehicle to draw the Republican Party closer to Russia. While Butina was arrested in July and Erickson is reportedly under active investigation, court documents relating to Butinas prosecution describe Rockefeller heir George ONeill Jr.s active cooperation in Butinas operation, down to his learning about Putins personal approval for the effort to host a series of friendship and dialogue dinners at which Russians could foster pro-Russian policies. [A]ll that we needed is <<yes>> from Putins side. The rest is easier, Butina wrote ONeill in March 2016. In the March plan, Democrats also said they would compel more information and testimony from witnesses that Republicans had let off easy. For example, the report lays out how both Donald Trump Jr. and Trumps former campaign chair Corey Lewandowski refused, in past appearances before the Intelligence Committee, to describe communications pertaining to the June 9 meeting in Trump Tower. The report also calls for more materials from the presidents former lawyer Michael Cohen pertaining to a 2016 bid to brand a Trump Tower in Moscow that continued well into the election year. And it argues that Erik Prince, the former head of the private security firm formerly known as Blackwater, must fully explain his meeting in the Seychelles with the head of a Russian investment firm, Kirill Dmitriev. Reporting since Prince testified to the committee in November 2017 suggests Prince lied about the meeting being an effort to set up a backchannel between Trumps team and Russia. Democrats have also promised to subpoena Twitter, WhatsApp, Apple, and the Trump Organization to learn more about communications that might be part of a conspiracy. For example, theyd like to obtain records showing which people, including Trump associates, communicated with Russian military intelligence mouthpiece Guccifer 2.0 or WikiLeaks, the outlets that released the Clinton and DNC emails stolen by Russia. In addition, Democrats would like to learn whether Trump associates communicated using encrypted messaging applicationsmessages that might have been missed in prior records requests. So Democrats have a fairly robust plan for the investigations theyll conduct if they win a majority in the House. But even that would only scratch the surface.The steps laid out by Schiff dont account for what happens if Mueller is fired before finishing his investigation. Thats a problem because, at every step of his probe, Mueller has identified key players in Russias 2016 election operation that no one, including members of Congress, had yet discovered. A few examples: A rural California man, Richard Pinedo, sold Russian internet trolls the identities they used to sow division among voters on Twitter and Facebook during the electiona role only disclosed when Mueller indicted the Internet Research Agency, a Russian troll farm based in Saint Petersburg. That same indictment described, but did not name, three Trump campaign officials in Florida who interacted with Russian trolls organizing a  Florida Goes Trump rally in August 2016. (Those three people have never been publicly identified, and if theyve been interviewed by any congressional committee, that fact remains secret.) Meanwhile, Sam Patten, a Republican lobbyist, started cooperating with federal prosecutors a good three months before it was publicly reported. Patten was the partner of the Russian-Ukrainian consultant and suspected Russian intelligence officer Konstantin Kilimnik, who interacted with Paul Manafort during the Trump campaign.The most visible signs of Muellers investigation since February pertain to longtime Trump hatchet man Roger Stone, and yet where that aspect of the probe might lead remains a mystery. Trump campaign aide Sam Nunberg, Stone assistant John Kakanis, Stone social media adviser Jason Sullivan, Stone associate Kristin Davis, radio host Randy Credico, and conspiracy theorist Jerome Corsiall appeared before Muellers grand jury.Muellers team also interviewed Ted Malloch, an associate of the British anti-immigration firebrand Nigel Farage. They questioned Trump aide Michael Caputo, while Stone aide Andrew Miller is currently fighting a grand jury subpoena in the District of Columbia Circuit Court. By May 25, at a time when just four of his associates had publicly revealed their testimony, Stone said eight of his associates had already been contacted by Muellers team. (Another witness against Stone received a subpoena but has never been publicly identified.) While public reports have focused on questions about Stones interactions with Guccifer 2.0 or WikiLeaks, some of the Mueller teams activity may relate to Stones dirty election tricks, which were funded by dark money groups. Its unclear how such fundraising might relate to allegations that Stone cooperated with Russia. So even for the part of the Mueller investigation that has been most public, there are big gaps in the public recordgaps that committees in the House might not be able to close. And thats just witnesses. Mueller has also obtained a great deal of records and communications that no committee in Congress is known to have obtained. As one example, on March 9, Mueller obtained search warrants for five AT&T phones, having shown probable cause those phones included evidence of a crime. At least one of those phones belonged to Paul Manafort (which is how details of the warrant became public), but the identities of the other people who had their phones searched remain undisclosed. Then theres the money angle. Buzzfeed has done great reporting on Suspicious Activity Reports on bank transfers associated with the Russian investigation. It has also raised questions about whether Treasury has cooperated with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, the one committee that requested financial records relating to the investigation. But theres no sign any committee in Congress has examined Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency transfersfinancial flows that have figured prominently in Russias campaign disruption efforts. If the Mueller investigation is sidelined, congressional investigators might need to access the secret connections Muellers team has spent 18 months discovering. How would they go about doing that?House Democrats might follow the precedent set during Watergatethe last time that a president tried to thwart an investigation into election corruption by firing the Department of Justice officials conducting it.Muellers activities thus far have been laid out in plea deals and highly detailed speaking indictments, which provide far more information about the actions involved than strictly necessary for legal purposes. But according to the regulation that governs his appointment, at the end of his investigation Mueller must also provide the attorney general with a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions reached by the special counsel. Also upon completion of the investigation, if the attorney general overrules an action Mueller wanted to take, he or she must notify the chair and ranking members of the Judiciary Committee.Its not clear what, within the scope of the regulations, would happen to such a report in the scenario laid out here, where Mueller got fired on some trumped-up claim of improper action. The only thing that would necessarily get shared with Congress is the report on why the attorney general had overruled Mueller, which wouldnt necessarily include details of what else Mueller had discovered. Indeed, Neal Katyal, the former Obama administration lawyer who wrote the special counsel regulation under which Mueller operates, recently advised Rosenstein to provide a report to Congress before a meeting with Trump at which he might have been fired. But Rosenstein might not permit such reports under department regulations. Rosenstein has refused to share information on the investigation in the past, citing the Department of Justice policy on not confirming names of those being investigated unless they are charged. And thus far, even Republicans attempting to undermine the investigation have not sought investigative materials from Mueller, instead focusing on the FBI investigation up to the time when Mueller was hired on May 17, 2017. Thats partly because under rule 6(e) of grand jury proceedings, information can only be shared for other legal proceedings (such as a state trial or military commission). Yet a Watergate precedent suggests the House could obtain the report if Mueller were fired. Some Freedom of Information Act requests have recently focused attention onand may lead to the public release ofa report similar to the one Mueller is mandated to complete. It was the report done by Watergate prosecutor Leon Jaworski, referred to as the Road Map. The Road Map consists of a summary and 53 pages of evidentiary descriptions, each citing the underlying grand jury source for that evidentiary description. In 1974, Jaworski used it to transmit information discovered during his grand jury investigation to the House Judiciary Committeewhich then used the report to kickstart its impeachment investigation. Before Jaworski shared the Road Map, however, he obtained authorization from then-Chief Judge John Sirica of the D.C. Circuit Court. In Siricas opinion authorizing the transfer, he deemed the report to be material to House Judiciary Committee duties. He further laid out how such a report should be written to avoid separation of powers issues. The report as compiled by Jaworski offered no accusatory conclusions nor substitute[s] for indictments where indictments might properly issue. It didnt tell Congress what to do with the information. Rather it was a simple and straightforward compilation of information gathered by the Grand Jury, and no more. Per Sirica, that rendered the report constitutionally appropriate to share with another branch of government. If Muellerwhose team includes former Watergate prosecutor James Quarleswere fired and he leaves any report behind that fits the standards laid out here, this Watergate precedent should ensure it could be legally shared with the House Judiciary Committee.The D.C. Circuit Court recently heard a case, McKeevy v. Sessions, on whether judges can release historic grand jury materials. Chief Judge Beryl Howell, who is presiding over the Road Map FOIAs as well as the Mueller grand jury, has stayed the Road Map FOIA to await its results. But McKeevy is a request for public release of grand jury materials, rather than disclosure to a government body with the constitutional duty to conduct its own investigations. As such, it probably wouldnt affect the Watergate precedent. So if Trump challenges the conveyance of Muellers report to the House Judiciary Committee, he would be making an argument not even Richard Nixon made. It is also an argument that the U.S. v. Nixon precedentwhich held that due process limits the presidents claims of privilegelikely would not support.Still, Trump will have one more way to stall, though probably not kill, House efforts to pick up where a fired Mueller left off. Under current House rules, committee chairs have the authority and the majority votes to issue subpoenas; if Democrats win a majority, they could even set new rules in the new Congress permitting committee chairs to issue subpoenas by themselves. But because the Department of Justice traditionally enforces subpoenas, congressional committees led by the opposition party have traditionally struggled to enforce subpoenas they do issue, especially for White House officials. That would be doubly true if Trump replaced Sessions with someone even more interested in obstructing real accountability for the president.Even under Republican control of Congress, Trump officials have avoided or sharply limited their testimony by suggesting executive privilege might cover their testimonywithout actually making Trump invoke it. Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and then-Director of National Security Agency Mike Rogers dodged testimony in this fashion, before ultimately testifying in a session closed to the public. More egregiously, former White House Communications Director Hope Hicks and Lewandowski refused to answer some of the questions posed by the House Intelligence Committee, notably declining to share information on the presidential transition.Given two recent precedentsforcing the testimony of George Bushs White House Counsel Harriet Miers (and consigliere Karl Rove) in the investigation into the firing of U.S. Attorneys and the cooperation of Barack Obamas Attorney General Eric Holder in the investigation into the Fast and Furious scandala Democratic House will likely be able to compel cooperation from witnesses, even if it might take a while.At a fundraiser in July, Rep. Devin Nunes, the Republican who thwarted all of Schiffs investigative ambition on the House Intelligence Committee, explained that unless the Russian investigation were stopped, then the only way to thwart it would be for Republicans to retain the majority in the House. We have to keep the majority, he said. If we do not keep the majority, all of this goes away.It might take time and a whole lot of litigation for the Mueller investigation to come to light. But Nunes may well prove to be right. 	Liberal
How divided have Americans become? When it comes to the two-party war, the differences could not be starker. Pew Research Center has reported that 55 percent of Democrats are afraid of the Republican Party and nearly half of Republicans are similarly fearful of Democrats. These survey results were published in June 2016before Donald Trump was elected. Since then, of course, the enmity has increased. Trumps genius for stirring up discord is one reason, but only one: The ingredients of all-out political warfare have been simmering for many years, as each of the two parties has discarded the old-fashioned ideal of the big tent and enacted its own purifying rituals.What has changed is how personal these political divisions have become. Partisanship has taken on an unsettling aspect and turned into something new: affective polarization, which dictates not only how we vote, but also, as social scientists have reported in the Harvard Business Review, how we work and shop. Politically minded consumers are almost twice as likely to engage in a transaction when their partisanship matched the sellers, and they are willing to work for less money for fellow partisans. Is this honorable self-sacrifice or self-inflicted injury? It is hard to say, especially since, when it comes to political dispute, particular policy beliefs are often beside the point, the researchers write. What matters is who wants the new bill passed and who wants it stopped. Its a zero-sum game in which victories are less important than the other sides defeats.Yet, as Sam Rosenfeld shows in The Polarizers, the irrational-seeming extreme partisanship and tribalism that contaminate our politics today originated in the principled efforts of writers, activists, and politicians who thought the two parties needed more polarization, ideological fixity, and internal discipline. This idea went back to the New Deal era, when the two major parties were each riven by internal disagreements on race, the economy, and much else, so that President Roosevelt met opposition in Congress not only from Republicans but also from Southern Democrats. He tried to fix the problem, first mounting a campaign to purge conservatives from the Democratic Party in the 1938 midterms (it backfired) and then inviting the moderate Republican nominee he defeated in 1940, Wendell Willkie, to join him in a plan to break apart the two parties and reset them like straightened limbs, one liberal, and the other conservative.Today that course seems fatefully misguided, but Rosenfeld is right to point out that what came before wasnt always better. What some enshrine as an age of statesmanlike civility and bipartisan compromise often involved dark bargains and dirty hands collusions, and was not especially democratic. This is what led political scientists such as E. E. Schattschneider and James MacGregor Burns to argue in the 1940s and 1950s against bipartisanship, because it depended on toxic alliances that hemmed in political players, from presidents on down. Thus, even the immensely popular war-hero Dwight Eisenhower, the first Republican president elected in 24 years, was stymied time and again by in-built flaws in a defective system. Eisenhower wanted to do the sensible thingto advance civil rights and economic justice at home while negotiating abroad with the Soviet Union. He repeatedly came up against a stubborn alliance of conservative Southern Democrats and heartland Republicans.Out of all this came the drive to reform the two parties, to make them more distinct through what Rosenfeld calls ideological sorting. The hope was that clear agendas, keyed to voting majorities, would marginalize the reactionaries and extremists in both parties, and that mainstream, responsible forces would govern from the center, giving the public the expanded, activist government it obviously wanted. This was the initial promise of polarization. What went wrong?For one thing, Schattschneider and Burns were viewing the system from the heights of presidential politics, where centrism did indeed dominate. The ideological distance from FDR in 1932 to Eisenhowers successor Richard Nixon, elected in 1968, was not great. World War II and cold war wise men could be either Republicans or Democrats. They belonged to the same establishment, attended the same Ivy League colleges, were members of the same clubs, read the editorial pages of the same few newspapers. Two parties organized around such leaders could each have presented a coherent agenda, one to the left of center, one to the right, meeting in the middle.It was the consensus ideal, and it ignored deeper tensions in parts of the country where politics was harder-edged and culturally driven. An ideology nourished in the small-town Midwest and rural South and in the growing population centers of Western states resented and opposed the approach, style, and transactional presumptions of East Coast elites. And this resistance found support from right-wing intellectuals, heirs to pre-World War II Old Guard conservatism. Its best minds coalesced around National Review, founded as an anti-Eisenhower weekly in late 1955. Rosenfeld has much to say about the magazine, but he leaves out its most original and penetrating thinker, the Yale political scientist and NR columnist, Willmoore Kendall. An incisive critic of the Schattschneider-Burns thesis, he helped coin the term liberal Establishment and theorized that proponents of the presidential majority seemed to be wishing away the second, congressional majority elected every two years and therefore more directly accountable to voters.Burns could argue that the true Republican Party naturally reflected Eisenhowers internationalism, because influential peopleincluding the publishers of The New York Herald Tribune and Time magazineapproved of him. But much of the GOP base gave its loyalty to local figures, whose views more closely resembled their own on the whole range of issues: civil rights and civil liberties, military spending and foreign aid, free trade and the national debt, even the scientific outlook. When it came to these matters, the peoples tribune wasnt Eisenhower, the five-star general, who had been the supreme commander of NATO and the president of Columbia University. It was Senator Joseph McCarthy, who became the hero to the emerging postwar right. His most eloquent defender, National Reviews editor, William F. Buckley Jr., applauded McCarthys Red-hunting investigations and ridiculed the tu quoque hypocrisies of McCarthys enemiesliberals and moderates in both parties.Rosenfeld is curiously silent about all this. He praises Buckleys 1959 manifesto Up From Liberalism, calling it a thorough formulation of the connection between building a conservative ideological movement and recasting the party system. In fact, Buckley said little about this, apart from restating the case for McCarthy. It was puzzling to readers, including some on the right, that Buckley never got around to saying what conservatism meant or even what conservatives should do. When he talked about policy, it was mainly to denounce liberal proposalson voting rights, health care, battles between labor and managementwithout offering any serious alternative in their place. What would a truly conservative administration do if elected? Buckley had no idea, Call it a No-program, if you will, he cheerfully wrote or shrugged, in words that sound like marching orders for todays GOP. Undoing or rolling back the New Deal and post-New Deal programs already in place would suffice. It is certainly program enough to keep conservatives busy.Buckley wasnt being flippant. He was being honest. Conservatives really did have no interest in social policy. National Review writers excelled at philosophical theory and high rhetoric, but when the subject turned to a crucial policy issue such as Medicare, you publish a few skimpy and haughty paragraphs, Buckleys friend Irving Kristol complained in 1964, when it was clear some kind of national health care for the elderly was going to be enacted, expanding the popular protections in Social Security. Why not five or six pages, in which several authorities spell out the possible provisions of such a bill? Kristol urged. It could really affect the way we live now. Buckley wasnt interested, and Kristol plugged the hole himself with The Public Interest, the quarterly he founded with Daniel Bell in 1965. It was one of the eras best journals, filled with well-written analysis and incisive commentary on the entire range of midcentury policy. But in the end, Buckley was right. As Rosenfeld says, it was National Review that gave direction to the conservative revolution and made the GOP better organized and more ideologically unified than the polarizers of the 40s and 50s could imagine.Buckleys brother-in-law, L. Brent Bozell, was a key figure in translating these ideas into political strategy. He brilliantly repackaged Buckleys No-program in a tract he ghostwrote for Barry Goldwater, The Conscience of a Conservative, meant to launch a shot-across-the-bow challenge to Nixon in 1960. In a famous passage, Bozell and Goldwater project a vision of the ideal man in office, the savior of the Republic, who tells the people,I have little to no interest in streamlining government or in making it more efficient, for I mean to reduce its size. I do not undertake to promote welfare for I propose to extend freedom. My aim is not to pass laws, but to repeal them. When the book became a best-seller and the guessing game of authorship began, Goldwater insisted he had written itor that it grew out of his speeches and published writings (never mind that theyd been ghosted too). Under normal conditions, few would have caredJohn F. Kennedy didnt write his books either. But Goldwater was being marketed as a bold political thinker. Rosenfeld perpetuates this myth, the better to present Goldwater as a serious-minded intellectual who framed his positions on disparate issues within an overarching ideological vision. That vision consisted of libertarian economics at home and militant anti-Communism abroad. Goldwater didnt come close to getting the nomination. Nixon did, as expected, and then lost, barely, to John F. Kennedyanother victory for the liberal Establishment.Goldwater was too good a politician to chain himself to a single script, especially a losing script. It was dawning on some that Kristol had got one big thing right. The public really did want government programs, as long as the benefits accrued to them and not someone else. In early 1961, getting a jump on the next election, a second Goldwater ghostwriter, Michael Bernstein, drafted a prescient document, the Goldwater Manifesto or Forgotten American speech. It sketched out the beginnings of what later came to be called big-government conservatisma reordering of spending away from the poor and minorities (singled out for help by Kennedys New Frontier) and toward a newly aggrieved group, the silent Americans, who truly constitute the substantial majority of our people and yet cannot find voice against the mammoth organizations which mercilessly pressure their own membership, the Congress, and society as a whole for objectives which these silent ones do not want.What might the silent ones want instead? For one thing, Bernstein proposed, tax relief for families with children attending college. NR purists were appalled. This was still Big Brothermanna flowing from the Beltwayeven if, in this case, the money was going back to overburdened taxpayers. In embarrassment, Goldwater backed away and made a new calculation. The most numerous silent votes were to be had in the South. White majorities there felt disrespected or worse by the presidencies of Kennedy and his successor, Lyndon Johnson. Civil rights was the pivotal issue, but not the only one. In fact, it overlapped with other tensions: in labor unions, public education, housing, anti-colonial uprisings abroad. Below the calm surface of consensus, a deeper struggle was going on. There is a vague and bitter counter-revolution in this countryanti-big government, anti-union, anti-high taxation, anti-Negro, anti-foreign aid, and anti-the whole complex spirit of modern American life, James Reston, The New York Times Washington bureau chief and most respected columnist, wrote in 1963, when Goldwater was the uncrowned king of an increasingly conservative GOP. The center that Schattschneider and Burns had counted on was coming apart.What Reston missed was the sophistication of Goldwaters rhetoric, helped along by the writings of Buckley, Bozell, and Bernstein. He overlooked as well the Southern strategy devised by NRs publisher, William Rusher. It wasnt a new idea. Goldwaters first stab at the presidency, in 1960, had begun in South Carolina, when he won the delegates at the state Republican convention, catching Nixon off-guard. It was his first successful duck hunting expeditionthat is, courting the votes of middle-class whites in the New South, with its rising business class. Uncomfortable with the overt race-baiting of Dixiecrats, these voters responded to a broader argument cast in the language of states rights and free enterprise, the true pillars of the constitutional republic as opposed to the Democrats promise of egalitarian democracy. You could make this case, and Goldwater did, without mentioning race at all. Buckley made the same adjustment. Instead of saying black people were inferiorNational Reviews line in the 1950she now argued that Goldwater does not intend to diminish the rights of any minority groupsbut neither does he desire to diminish the rights of majority groups.While Democrats had become the party of civil rights, the Republican Party, without explicitly saying so, was now a White Mans Party, as Robert Novak put it in his account of the 1964 election, The Agony of the G.O.P. The transformation began in earnest when Senator Strom Thurmond quit the Democratic Party, taking South Carolinas electoral votes with him, and was welcomed into the GOP by his good friend Goldwater. Thurmond the defecting Democrat was joined by younger Southern politicians nourished within the GOP. These were figures like James Martin, who challenged and nearly unseated Lister Hill, the four-term incumbent Democratic senator in Alabama, in 1962. Martin was elected to the House in 1964, together with five others from the South, four of them from statesTennessee, Texas, Florida, and Kentuckythat today contribute to the GOPs base. Canny operatives like the Alabama prodigy John Grenier (oddly absent from Rosenfelds book) rose to top positions in Goldwaters campaign. Its victories came almost entirely from the Deep South.While Democrats had become the party of civil rights, the Republican Party, without explicitly saying so, was now a White Mans Party.Outside the South (and his home state, Arizona), Goldwater got a thrashing in 1964. But he had opened up the route to what the political strategist Kevin Phillips soon called the emerging Republican majority, which nationalized the Southern strategy by courting alienated white voters in the North as the civil rights movement moved there; by focusing on racially charged issues like forced busing and the integration of labor unions, the GOP drove a wedge in what had once been Democratic strongholds. In 1968, Richard Nixon dusted off Bernsteins forgotten man speech and made it the template for his appeal to the silent majority, as Garry Wills reported in his classic Nixon Agonistes. Like Goldwater, Nixon cast tribal politics in lofty ideological terms. He talked of positive polarization and promised to overturn the false unity of consensus, of the glossing over of fundamental differences, of the enforced sameness of government regimentation. Ronald Reagan, preparing to run in 1976, went even further, warning that if Republicans continued to fuzz up and blur the differences between the two parties when they should be raising a banner of no pale pastels, but bold colors, he might quit the GOP and form a third party. Instead he contested and badly weakened the incumbent Gerald Ford. Four years later, Reagan repeated the Goldwater and Nixon formula, rechristening the forgotten American and silent majority as the moral majority, and won in a landslide.For all this talk of the fundamental differences between the parties, however, partisanship did not yet reach todays poisonous extreme. Nixon and Reagan, experienced leaders, ran against government while also realizing there were very few programs the voting public would be willing do without. Once in office, Republicans too were expected to make the system work. Democrats, with their long history of taking public policy seriously, were, however, better at itas some conservatives acknowledged. In his influential book Suicide of the West, Buckleys colleague James Burnham quoted Michael Oakeshott, who said fixing social problems was the liberals ambition, or delusion. While the liberal can imagine a problem which would remain impervious to the onslaught of his own reason, Oakeshott wrote, what he cannot imagine is politics which do not consist in solving problems. The conservatives job was to apply the brakes when necessary, to keep alive the opposition argument in a world in which all knew liberalism remained the basis of modern governance but werent always prepared to admit it.This broad but tacit acceptance of activist government is what inspired the Democrat Daniel Patrick Moynihan to take a job in Nixons administration in 1969. He gambled that a moderate Republican, who said he disliked government but realized voters wanted it, might succeed in passing legislation where Democrats had failed. Despite encountering resistance from the congressional majority, Moynihan was vindicated. The Nixon years gave us a good deal of effective government. They saw the creation of the EPA, wage-and-price controls, the Equal Employment Opportunity Act, Supplemental Social Security income (for the blind, disabled, and elderly), Pell Grants (college loans for lower-income students), the Endangered Species Act, and more. It was a rich legislative record, as the political scientist David Mayhew has written. The reason is conveyed in the title of Mayhews book, Divided We Govern, which showed how well government worked when voters split tickets and gave each party control of a different branch. Rosenfelds thesisthat the postwar enthusiasm for ideologically unified parties yielded some positive goodworks better when he turns to the Democratic Party, which really did clean house, cutting loose Southern reactionaries to make itself the party of civil rights. Stalwarts of the Senate citadel like Harry F. Byrd and Richard Russell lingered, but with diminished authority as civil rights became the partys great cause, and Northern liberalsthe Minnesotans Hubert Humphrey and Eugene McCarthy, to name two, and the Prairie populist George McGoverngained national followings. There were also the brave organizing efforts of college students, white and black, who mobilized citizens in the South. Rosenfeld has very good pages on the 1964 Democratic convention, when members of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, led by the activists Bob Moses and Fannie Lou Hamer, challenged the Dixiecrats. Their victory was symbolic, but politics is often written in symbols.One wishes Rosenfeld had more to say about other political figures, particularly black leaders such as the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., Julian Bond, and Shirley Chisholm, who guided the Democrats response to the most important polarization in America. Kendalls two majoritiesone presidential, the other congressionalonly grazed the surface of a nation profoundly split into two societies, one black, one white separate and unequal, to quote one of the periods great public documents, The Kerner Report. Published in 1968 after a year of investigation by a presidential advisory commission, the report explored the causes of the urban disorder in almost 150 citiesespecially Detroit and Newarkin the summer of 1967.In April 1968, while the Kerner commission findings were still being digested, King was assassinated, and the two societies hardened along lines that prefigure todays jagged divisions. Trumps truest forerunner, many have pointed out, was the one true radical in the 1968 presidential campaign, the Alabama segregationist George Wallace, a lifelong Democrat who ran on a third-party ticket and preached a Trump-like gospel of revenge. The desire for law and order is nothing so simple as a code for racism, Garry Wills wrote of Wallaces message at the time. It is a cry, as things begin to break up, for stability, for stopping history in mid-dissolution. Fifty years ago, middle America already yearned to make their country great again.In truth it was becoming greator better, anyway. Rosenfelds book, though the last pages rush through the years between 2000 and 2016, says very little about President Barack Obama, whose two terms were a model of responsible party politics, ideologically moored but also pragmatic and aimed at the broad middle of the electorate. It led to much good policy, and to the strong economy that is now buoying Trumps presidency. Why does Rosenfeld have nothing to say about Obama? One answer might be that Obama was detached from the Democratic base: It steadily eroded during his two terms, especially at the all-important state level, as Nicole Narea and Alex Shephard wrote soon after Trump was elected. The Republicans, meanwhile, had diligently rebuilt from the bottom up, bringing about todays relentless dynamics of party polarization and a climate of factional chaos.Rosenfeld blames our current partisan gridlock on the systems logic of line-drawing. But he also warns that any plausible alternatives to the rigidities and rancor of party polarization might well prove to be something more chaotic and dangerous. What can he mean? He points to the dangers of pragmatic bargaining and to the unprincipled compromises that might take the place of effective policymaking. This, he worries, would leave us with the same problems Schattschneider and Burns identified decades ago. Yet the last half-century of legislative history suggests something very different: The only coherent policies weve seen in decadesfrom the great civil rights legislation of the 1960s through Medicare and then Reagans tax reform in the 1980sowe their passage to exactly the bipartisanship Rosenfeld finds corrupting. The lone recent instance of one-party rule creating a powerful piece of legislation is the Affordable Care Act, and the bill was vulnerable to attack precisely because no Republicans in either the House or the Senate voted for it and so had no stake in protecting it.In one important way, however, Rosenfeld could be right about the ultimate benefits of polarization. In the Desolation Row of the Trump era, Which side are you on? has become the paramount question. Trumps coarseness has invigorated the forces of resistance: A politer figure would not have given us the Access Hollywood tape, and the brazen denials afterward, and would not have fed the outrage that burst into public consciousness with the Me Too movement. So too Trump and Paul Ryans failure to come up with a workable replacement for Obamacarea failure rooted in half a century of a No-program programhas given Democrats one of their most potent issues in the midterms. And the excesses of House Republicans, especially the foot soldiers in the Freedom Caucus, may well create opportunities for another disciplined group whose presence has been growing on the other side, the Congressional Black Caucus. If these changes come, polarization will be a major reason. The most enduring accomplishment of Trump and Trumpism the latest, most decadent stage of the American rightcould be the rebirth of an authentic American left.	Liberal
Bring the war home.Thats what protesters at the University of Wisconsin chanted in early 1970, denouncing defense-related research at the school during the Vietnam War. Later that summer, four men brought the war to campus. They set off a bomb at the Army Mathematics Research Center, killing a physics graduate student and injuring three others.Critics were quick to blame the entire antiwar movement. But the attack also triggered sober reflection among the protesters, who asked themselves whether their increasingly aggressive language had encouraged it.Thats precisely the kind of honest, good-faith reckoning thats been missing among most Republicans in recent days. Last Friday, police said that a Florida supporter of President Donald Trump, Cesar Sayoc, was responsible for sending explosive packages to Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, and several other prominent Democrats. Then, on Saturday, 11 people at a Pittsburgh synagogue were murdered by alleged gunman Robert Bowers, who reportedly didnt vote for Trump but had posted diatribes echoing the presidents overheated rhetoric about the caravan of migrants from Central America.White House officials responded defensively after both attacks, denying that Trumps language might have helped provoke them. The president is certainly not responsible for sending suspicious packages to someone, no more than Bernie Sanders was responsible for a supporter of his shooting up a Republican baseball field practice last year, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said, referring to the attack that critically injured Republican Congressman Steve Scalise last year. But Bernie Sanders hasnt encouraged people to behave violently; Trump has. He urged supporters at a rally to knock the crap out of anti-Trump protesters, promising to pay any resulting legal bills. He has continuously praised Montana Congressman Greg Gianforte for body-slamming a news reporter. And he grinned happily last week while supporters chanted CNN sucks, just days after the network received one of Sayocs mail bombs and mere hours after news reports showed Sayocs van bearing a bumper sticker with the same slogan.And Trump certainly fueled anti-Semitic theories that the Central American caravan is funded by Jewish philanthropist and top Democratic donor George Soros, which was a recurring theme on Bowerss social media account. Trump didnt name Soros, whom Sayoc also targeted with a bomb, but warned that the caravan didnt just happen and that a lot of money was passing to it from outside. Thats a clear nod to conspiracists like Bowers.On Friday, Trump acknowledged that Sayoc preferred him over other political candidates. But he refused to admit that his own behavior could have encouraged Sayocs assassination attempts. Theres no blame, Trump declared. Theres no anything. His comment brought me back to the 1970 bombing at the University of Wisconsin, which shook the antiwar movement to its core. Instead of simply distancing themselves from the attack, protesters asked hard questions about how their own actions might have helped provoke it.The same bombers had previously tossed a firebomb into an ROTC classroom at the university. And a few days before the 1970 New Year, they stole a plane and dropped a series of explosives onto a nearby ammunition plant. Nicknamed The New Years Gang, they were lionized as romantic heroes by Wisconsins student newspaper and other protesters at the university. But after the destruction of the math building and the death of the physics student, a 33-year-old father of three, protesters changed their tune. The bombing was so extreme and unjustifiable and horrible, it stopped us in our tracks, one activist said. Another noted that the attack caused a lot of soul searching. It was a very pointed reminder . . .  that you cant persuade people of the sanctity of human life by being recklessly unmindful of human life.When will Republicans search their own souls about the reckless rhetoric that provoked Sayoc and Bowers? Several GOP senators have released generic statements denouncing violence and calling for civility. But all of these comments ring hollow when they exempt the man who has done more than anybody else to encourage violence and erode civility. Look, everyone has their own style. And frankly, people on both side of the aisle use strong language about our political differences, Vice President Mike Pence told NBC News on Saturday. But I just dont think you can connect it to threats or acts of violence. Its true that Congresswoman Maxine Waters and a few other Democrats in Congress have engaged in their own kinds of incivility, such as calling on supporters to confront Trump administration officials in restaurants. But the Democratic leadership has unequivocally condemned their behavior. Im not expecting Republicans to stop supporting Trumps policies, just as the protesters in Wisconsin werent about to abandon their opposition to the Vietnam War over the actions of the New Years Gang. But not a single prominent Republican has stood up over the past few days to state the obvious: Trumps violent rhetoric encourages violent action.Decent people can endorse Trumps views on immigration, health care, taxes, and so on, but decent people do not speak and act like he does. Its time for Republican leaders to say that, clearly and unequivocally. If they dont, they will be complicit in any further right-wing political violence that mars the countryand will be remembered as cowards and opportunists, who put their own immediate political concerns above the fate of America.	Liberal
In 1919, famed German theorist Max Weber gave a lecture to a group of idealistic left-wing students in Munich. It was a time of political shifts: Germany had lost the First World War, and revolution was in the air. For young students, politics must have seemed an attractive outlet for shaping a better world. Weber wanted them to be under no illusions, however. If salvation was what they wanted, for themselves, and others, they had the wrong idea. Politics is not just about doing whats morally right, he warned them, in a lecture that would become his classic Politics as a Vocation essay. Or rather, what is morally right is not that straightforward in politics.What any person who wants to become a politician needs to understand, said Weber, is an ethical paradox at the heart of politics: the contrast between the ethics of conviction and the ethics of responsibility. Those who act out of the ethics of conviction, according to Weber, do what they see as the morally right thing to do, independently of the consequences. Those guided by the ethics of responsibility try to anticipate the potential implications of their actions and take them under consideration before acting.Many have criticized Donald Trumps tepid reaction to the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Ahmad Khashoggi. Mainly, theyve focused on his lack of moral indignation, i.e. lack of an ethics of convictionhis interest in keeping the Saudi relationship going despite the regimes murderous activities. But what Weberians might note is that the president also hasnt displayed any real ethics of responsibility.  Trumps response to the death of Khashoggi has evolved over the past weeks, moving from statements on the importance of Saudi arms sales to criticisms of the regime. This has been, to some extent, a result of Saudi Arabias continuously evolving account of what happened. But Trumps revised stance has also been a result of the public perception of this case, something that Trump himself admitted to, and lamented: This one has caught the imagination of the world, unfortunately, he said. Its not a positive. Not a positive. In his interview with 60 Minutes, Trump came close to recognizing the atrocity of a government murdering a journalist over critical op-eds: Theres somethingyoull be surprised to hear me say thattheres something really terrible and disgusting about that if that were the case, so were going to have to see. He then added, Were going to get to the bottom of it and there will be severe punishment. But Trumps recognition of the morally unpalatable nature of the journalists murder was coupled with a reminder of the enormous military order Saudi Arabia has placed with the U.S. Further concessions were also made: Khashoggi, after all, wasnt a U.S. citizen, and the murder took place in Turkey, not on American soil. Trump has also said he believes the prince Mohammed bin Salmans denial of involvementthat this was all carried out without his knowledge. True moral outrage was absentprobably unsurprising, as strong moral convictions are not something that Trump is known for, particularly when it comes to freedom of the press. The president has repeatedly called the media the enemy of the people, and recently applauded Republican Congressman Greg Gianforte for getting rough with a reporter.Weber might point out that downplaying moral conviction can be a good thing for a leader. In fact, he criticized moralizing politicians, who he said in nine out of ten cases are windbags, self-satisfied with their own moral purity. More importantly, they are not in touch with reality, and they do not feel the burden they need to shoulderto consider consequences, not just principles. For an illustration of that point, one need look no further than the Iraq War. According to reports from that time, the conviction that Saddam Hussein was evilcompletely aside from the empirical question of whether he had weapons of mass destructiontrumped concerns about the possible complications and unwanted consequences of intervening in that area of the Middle East. Even though removing an evil dictator might have seemed a noble reason for going to war at the time, retrospectively, that seems a deeply irresponsible motivation, possibly even immoral, given the number of deaths, the power vacuum that allowed violent radical groups to proliferate, and the continuing instability of the country.This brings us to Webers ethics of responsibility. It represents a down-to-earth pragmatism, one that takes into consideration the complexities of the world and the negative consequences that well-meaning actions might have.  Given the geopolitical intricacies of the Middle East, theres certainly a case to be made that U.S.-Saudi relations need to be preserved for non-monetary reasons this security partnership provides some semblance of stability in the region, that could otherwise erupt violently. On the other hand, this line of argument would have to be weighed against the consequences that allying with Saudi Arabia has had so farincluding the famine a Saudi-backed alliance is causing in Yemen. Even taking an ethics of responsibility stance against Saudi Arabia does not provide easy options.  But this isnt the sort of complicated political calculus the president has offered in place of moral indignation. Instead, the justification for being easy on Saudi Arabia has been couched in terms of financial lossperhaps even on a personal level, as the presidents own business ties there have recently come under scrutiny. Trumps caution over Saudi Arabia thus fails Webers definition of the ethics of responsibility as well: Weber explicitly stated that acting according to the ethics of responsibility was not the same as acting in pure self-interest.On Thursday, news broke that Saudi Arabias public prosecutor was now acknowledging that Khashoggis murder was premeditated. This news will make it much harder for Mohammed bin Salman and his father, the king of Saudi Arabia, to maintain they were unaware of this plot. And it puts greater pressure on President Trump to choose a course of action. Towards the end of Politics as Vocation, after having lectured the young, idealistic students in his audience about the moral compromises that a life in politics involves, Weber had a moment of idealism himself. Sometimes, even a politician with a keen sense of the ethics of responsibility, and an awareness of the potential consequences of their actions, cant help but act on the basis of moral conviction. This should be possible for any of us, Weber said, who is not dead inside.Unlike the American president, who so far has displayed not so much a struggle between two ethical compulsions as between public perception and calculated financial interest, at least some members of Congress seem to be taking the moral weight of the events seriously. There seems to be bipartisan support for at least exploring sanctions. In these times, having one branch of government not be dead inside is perhaps all one can hope for.	Liberal
The relationship between American Muslims and the Democratic Party is often described as a marriage of convenience. One of the best illustrations of this was the appearance of Khizr and Ghazala Khan at the 2016 Democratic National Convention. The Khans, parents of a U.S. Army captain killed in the Iraq War, didnt exactly fit the liberal mold: Khizr Khan was a political independent who supported Reagan twice. But now the Khans were ardent Democrats. Vote for the healer, for the strongest, most qualified candidate, Hillary Clinton, not the divider, Khizr Khan said.  What choice did they have? Months earlier, Donald Trump had called for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States. This blatantly discriminatory proposal was part of a larger political campaign steeped in Islamophobia. Not even the parents of a war herothe so-called good Muslimswere protected. As a result, more than three-quarters of Muslim voters cast their ballot for Clinton. The Muslim-Democratic alliance has only been strengthened in the wake of President Trumps Muslim ban, which translated his xenophobic campaign promises into the law of the land. Today, Muslims constitute the most Democratic-identifying religious group in the country.This is despite the fact that many Muslims continue to lean conservative, as Wajahat Ali Khan has pointed out in The New York Times. [P]rivately, they adhere to traditional values, believe in God, and think gay marriage is a sin, even though an increasing number support marriage equality, he wrote.The Republican Partys Islamophobia has turned Democrats and Muslims into strange bedfellows, while also masking differences that have emerged since the 2016 election. Interviews with Muslim leaders and activists, however, reveal that those differences often do not hinge on the Democratic Party being too progressive, but on the Democratic Party not being progressive enough. And far from treating the Democrats as a haven in troubled times, Muslim-Americans are starting to demand more from the only mainstream party that will have them.For American Muslims, the challenges of living under a Trump administration started with the Muslim ban but are not limited to it. Trumps first year in office corresponded with a 15 percent increase in hate crimes against Muslims in the U.S. The Trump administrations foreign policy in the Middle East has also not sat well with most Muslims, including the administrations recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and its decision to open a U.S. embassy there.Trump has also used and legitimized anti-Muslim rhetoric as a campaign strategy in the midterms. A new report published by the group Muslim Advocates found 80 separate instances of clear anti-Muslim political rhetoric being directly used by candidates in 2017 and 2018 races. A majority of the candidates using this rhetoric are Republican. And Trump himself tweeted last week that a migrant caravan approaching the U.S.-Mexico borderwhich has become a flashpoint for midterms raceshad been infiltrated by unknown Middle Easterners, a clear attempt to inject an Islamophobic element into the issue. (He later admitted he had no proof for his claim.)But Muslim-American political activity this campaign season has not been restricted to responding to these existential threatsto the contrary, it has been notable for its breadth, variety, and inventiveness.This has been most evident in the midterms blue Muslim wave, in which more than 90 American Muslims ran for office across the country. Most lost in the primaries, but a few have made it onto the ballot in November, including two Muslim women running for Congress, Ilhan Omar in Minnesota and Rashida Tlaib in Michigan. Whats striking about Omar and Tlaib is that their platforms are squarely in the left wing of the Democratic Party. Like other progressive insurgents, they are committed to economic justice for working people, Medicare for All, abolishing ICE, and holding Democratic leadership accountable.Muslim organizers are urging Muslim voters to think of their vote not simply as a means of ensuring their survival in this country, but also as a tool to shape a particular political vision. The Muslim grassroots organization MPower Change has been leading a nationwide get-out-the-vote and digital engagement campaign called #MyMuslimVote, partnering with local organizations in states with significant Muslim populations, including Michigan, Georgia, Virginia, and Texas. MPowers campaign director Mohammad Khan explained that its voter mobilization strategy changed after the 2016 elections. Khan said, We wanted our communities to think about voting in an aspirational way, we wanted to expand what people think of as Muslim issues. Muslims are not day-to-day thinking about how theyre going to fight terrorism, theyre thinking about the same things everyday that other people are thinking about.The results of the 2016 Democratic presidential primary contain some important clues on what these aspirations might be. In Dearborn, Michigan, a city where 40 percent of the population is Arab-American, Bernie Sanders beat Clinton with 59 percent of the vote. Some journalists were surprised that Arabs and Muslims had voted for a Jewish candidate, but its likely that voters were less interested in religion than the presence of a progressive, non-establishment candidate in the race.According to a 2017 survey conducted by Institute for Social Policy and Understanding (ISPU), a substantial segment of Muslim respondents (roughly 30 percent) did not favor either of the two major party candidates in the 2016 presidential election. Sanderss appeal to Muslim voters is partly explained by the fact that, amongst major faith groups in the U.S., Muslims are the youngest and most likely to identify as low income. A 2018 ISPU survey revealed that one-third of Muslims find themselves at or below the poverty line. It should come as no surprise that, like other Americans who voted for Sanders, Muslims want better wages and affordable health care.But Sanders also engaged with Muslims differently than Clinton did. Zohran Mamdani, board member of the Muslim Democratic Club of New York (MDCNY), said, A lot of times in Democratic conversations, things are framed as looking at a whole community through terrorism and anti-terrorism and not seeing us as full, complex individuals who have a multitude of issues and deserve to be treated in a way that all other communities are. The appearance of the Khans at the Democratic National Convention reinforced this framework, with its focus on a war that came shortly after 9/11 and that many Muslim Americans opposed.One of the most powerful moments in Sanderss campaign came at a rally in Virginia where a young Muslim student asked him how he would tackle Islamophobia as a president. Sanders responded by sharing his own Jewish familys experiences with bigotry, placing Islamophobia in a larger context of American racism. In contrast, Clinton drew criticism from many Muslims, including MPower Change, after she blamed the 2016 attack at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, on radical Islamism. Muslims felt that Clintons use of this term, which President Barack Obama avoided, implied that Islams more than one billion followers were responsible for the beliefs and actions of a small minority.Muslim-American political activity this campaign season is perhaps most evident at the local level. Muslims make up about 1 percent of the U.S. population, which means that, unlike other minority groups, they do not have the numbers to influence election outcomes on a national level except at the margins. But they do have the numbers to make an impact at the local and state levels. For example, the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) recently published a special voter guide for Muslim voters in Maryland. The guide includes a survey of candidates views on a variety of national and local issues that Maryland Muslims care about, including their position on whether public schools in areas with significant Muslim populations should close for the Muslim holidays of Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha. This is a particularly important issue for Muslims in Maryland because of the difficulties they faced in getting the states largest school district to start recognizing Muslim holidays in 2015. One of the first groups to endorse Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in her upset primary victory of Rep. Joe Crowley in New York this summer was a community organization called Muslims for Progress. Based in New York City and Long Island, the organization was created in 2017 by Toufique Harun and Saema Khandakar, husband and wife, in response to the disaster of the 2016 election. Harun and Khandakar, who describe themselves as complete and total political novices, said that the group is focused on increasing Muslim involvement in politics and that it was inspired by Indivisible, a nationwide grassroots movement of locally led progressive organizations.Ocasio-Cortezs director of organizing is Naureen Akhter, a 31-year-old Bangladeshi-American Muslim who also co-founded Muslims for Progress. Akther heard Ocasio-Cortez speak at a rally in June 2017, and soon after started leading signature-gathering efforts in Queens to help her get on the primary ballot. Akhter was critical in shaping Ocasios engagement with the large Bengali and Muslim community in New Yorks 14th Congressional DistrictOcasio even made a special campaign video for Bengali voters in which she spoke in Bengali.In 2017, Muslim and Arab voters in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Bay Ridge rallied behind the first Arab candidate to run for city council, Reverend Khader El-Yateem. El-Yateem, a democratic socialist, ultimately lost the Democratic primary to Justice Brannan, but his presence on the ballot inspired unprecedented voter engagement amongst Arabs and Muslims, especially Arab and Muslim women.In addition to supporting new progressive voices, Muslim organizers are focused on holding the Democratic Party accountable. MDCNY has an official endorsement process in which candidates have to fill out a questionnaire on a wide range of issues that matter to American Muslims. Mamdani said the purpose of this process is to distinguish between those that simply talk about Muslims within this larger framework of diversity is good and immigration is good and those who actually know that we dont want broad platitudes.Harun from Muslims for Progress said that Muslims drawn to his group care more about issues than parties. We work with the establishment candidates who fight for the issues, we work with grassroots candidates who work for the issues, we work with Republican candidates who work for the issues, we will work with anybody who fights for the right issues, he said.The focus on accountability has forced Muslim organizers to make difficult choices in the midterms. The New York attorney general primary between Public Advocate Letitia James and law professor Zephyr Teachout was especially challenging for MDCNY, since MDCNY had endorsed James in past elections. This time, the club endorsed Teachout after a tight vote amongst club members. Jamess ties to Governor Andrew Cuomo were particularly frustrating for Muslim progressives, partly because Cuomo has never visited a mosque in his seven years as a governor.Muslims, like other minority voters, expect more from the Democratic Party than it has given them in return. Khizr and Ghazala Khans appearance  at the 2016 Democratic National Convention was a defining moment for Muslim visibility and inclusivity in American politics for many Muslimsbut not all of them. Whether the Democratic Party can speak to the diversity of American Muslim politics will determine how deep this alliance will go.	Liberal
Donald Trumps presidency has sparked a rolling national discussion about the long-term vitality of Americas democratic system. Democrats are more than happy to talk about how his rise to power undermined the nations experiment in self-government, how his presence in the White House sullies it, and how his actions as president have imperiled it. But its unclear whether Democrats focus on acute threats to the republics long-term health extends to more chronic problems.Rhode Island Senator Sheldon Whitehouse has been a sharp critic of Trumps policies and behavior over the last two years. Last week, The Providence Journals editorial board asked him about his views on potential statehood for Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. Whitehouse responded with disinterest in the question for the island, then expressed opposition to its prospects for the district.I dont have a particular interest in that issue, Whitehouse said. If we got one one-hundredth in Rhode Island of what D.C. gets in federal jobs and activity, Id be thrilled.Puerto Rico is actually a better case because they have a big population that qualifies as U.S. and they are not, as D.C. is, an enclave designed to support the federal government, Whitehouse said. The problem of Puerto Rico is it does throw off the balance so you get concerns like, who do [Republicans] find, where they can get an offsetting addition to the states.Whitehousewhose comments caught wider notice on Thursday, prompting him to issue a statement saying that he would support statehood in both casesis right that D.C. statehood raises some thorny questions for American governance. Placing the seat of federal power under a single states jurisdiction could be a constitutional crisis waiting to happen. (Imagine if D.C.s power utilities cut off electricity to the White House and the Capitol during a dispute with the federal government, for example.) Ideally, the districts residents could get congressional representation through something like the Twenty-Third Amendment. But since theres no explicit constitutional bar to it, statehood is a feasible and reasonable solution to 700,000 Americans permanent lack of representation.Hes also correct that Puerto Rico has a good case for statehood. The commonwealths 3.3 million Americans outnumber the populations of almost two dozen individual states, but dwell in a constitutional purgatory of sorts. Puerto Ricans enjoy a greater degree of self-government than a territory, but lack the sovereignty, legal stature, and electoral weight of a state. A grim recent example is the disastrous federal response after Hurricane Maria devastated the island last year and killed thousands of people. While congressional representation and a few votes in the Electoral College arent a panacea to the scars of colonialism and racism, the islands residents have indicated in referenda that they would prefer it to the status quo.Whitehouses response goes awry at two key points, however. The first is his dismissive approach toward the question of D.C. statehood itself. Senators need not be passionate or particularly interested in every political issue, but its striking that hes so dismissive toward one of the most feasible ways that Democrats could chip away at the GOPs current structural advantage in the Senate. After all, he spent the last few months staunchly opposing Justice Brett Kavanaughs confirmation to the Supreme Court. If two D.C. senators had been able to cast a vote, Whitehouses preferred outcome would have prevailed.The second and perhaps greater error is Whitehouses concern that there isnt an offsetting addition for Republicans. This may be an important practical hurdle to Puerto Rico statehood while the GOP controls the presidency or part of Congress. But its neither a legal requirement nor a moral necessity if Democrats eventually control all the political levers. Its one thing for lawmakers to engage in a little horse-trading across the aisle to secure funding for a pet issue or pass a budget. Its quite another to do it with millions of Americans right to self-government.This approach is something of a tradition for top Democrats these days: unilaterally imposing limits on their ability to leverage an electoral mandate into lasting political change. Yearning for bipartisan buy-ins might have made sense in less polarized eras of American history. Now it just seems self-injurious for Democrats to seek it in the age of Trump. The GOP certainly isnt operating under these rules. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, the Senates master of realpolitik, isnt going out of his way to add a few liberals to the pile of conservative forty-somethings that hes shoveling into the federal courts. Republican secretaries of state like Kris Kobach and Brian Kemp havent bent over backwards to disenfranchise as many likely Republican voters as Democratic ones.If Democrats retake power over the next few years, there are major steps they could take to strengthen American democracy. The Weeks Ryan Cooper made the self-evident but necessary argument in March that theres nothing wrong with strengthening Americas democratic institutionsmaking it simpler and easier for all Americans to vote and obtain political representationin part because it would provide a partisan benefit. At the top of his list was statehood for Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, followed by abolishing the legislative filibuster and passing a new, stronger Voting Rights Act. Id add automatic voter registration and anti-gerrymandering reforms at the state level, too.Indeed, theres a similarly blunt clarity in the GOPs current strategy. Without extreme partisan gerrymanders, widespread voter suppression, and strict anti-immigration measures, the conservative political coalition may no longer be electorally viable in an increasingly diverse country. Republicans therefore have a logical reason (albeit a morally flawed one) to oppose an American electorate that can fully impose its political will. The only real mystery is why any Democrats would oppose that, too.This article has been updated to note Whitehouses statement on Thursday.	Liberal
Donald Trump thinks hes a rock star. Touring the country in support of Republican candidates, the president puffed out his chest and bragged about his ability to draw a crowd. Do you know how many arenas Ive beaten Elton Johns record? he reportedly told Congressman Kevin Cramer, who is running to unseat Democratic Senator Heidi Heitkamp in South Dakota.The crowds at my Rallies are far bigger than they have ever been before, including the 2016 election. Never an empty seat in these large venues, many thousands of people watching screens outside. Enthusiasm & Spirit is through the roof. SOMETHING BIG IS HAPPENING - WATCH!While the midterms are the ostensible reason for Trumps fall tour, Trumps message is all about Trump. The candidates themselves rarely factor in. At a stop in Texas on Monday in support of his frenemy Ted Cruz, Trump paid cursory attention to the Texas senator and instead gave a rambling, lengthy speech that hit all of the same notes as his presidential campaign: fear-mongering over immigrants and crime, attacks on the media, spiteful discursions about his political opponents, and a deluge of lies. He did refer to himself as a nationalist for the first time, but thats the only real news that his rallies have made for weeks if not months. Things have gotten so dull that even Fox News, which has covered his rallies extensively over the past three-plus years, is barely covering them.Republicans who need the presidents help are also tiring of his schtick. Most of the presidents hour-plus performances are one-man shows, The New York Timess Jonathan Martin and Maggie Haberman reported earlier this week. Unlike with past presidents, the candidate of the hour is handed the microphone by Mr. Trump only briefly sometime during his monologue. Strategists involved in the campaigns have even started to time how long into his remarks it is before the president mentions the race in question and starts attacking the Democrat on the ballot, which is the 30 seconds of footage they most covet.But the sense of unpredictability that once permeated Trumps rallies and public statements has long since disappeared. Thats out of necessity. His historically low approval ratings may be inching upward, but Republicans are still facing a blue wave in November. With few real accomplishments to run on, Trump is leaning on what he knows best: his greatest hits. But American voters may be tired of hearing them.Ever since Trump became the favorite to win the Republican presidential nominee in the spring of 2016, pundits began speculating that a pivot was imminent. Surely, Trumps platform, particularly on immigration, would have to be moderated for him to win the general election? Trumps apparent willingness to break with GOP dogma on foreign policy and entitlements only reinforced this belief. But the great moderation never came in his campaign against Hillary Clinton. Instead, he stuck with the same setlist: demonizing immigrants and demanding a wall be built at the United States southern border; suggesting that Clinton was a criminal who should be jailed; inviting several women who had accused Clintons husband of sexual harassment and assault to a presidential debate. Trump never wavered from serving red meat to his Republican base.After Trump was elected, again there was the assumption that Trump would moderate his behaviorthat the presidency would force him to. In his first address to a joint session of Congress in February of 2017, Trump was uncharacteristically muted and sounded like, well, a normal president. He feigned humility and expressed faith in American diversity and promise. The pundits ate it up, apparently forgetting his American carnage inaugural address just weeks earlier. Van Jones infamously remarked on CNN that tonight, Donald Trump became President of the United States. Fox News Chris Wallace said the exact same thing. CBS White House correspondent Jonathan Karl, meanwhile, tweeted the speech was at his most presidentialhis most effective speech yet.Seven months later, the pivot was alive and welldespite the fact that, in the intervening time, Trump had fired FBI Director James Comey because of this Russia thing, blamed both sides after a white nationalist murdered a counter-protester in Charlottesville, tried to deliver on his promise to ban Muslims from entering the U.S., ordered an end to Obama-era legal protections for undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, and so on. After Trump agreed to a funding deal with Democratic leaders Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, and suggested he was open to a deal to protect those undocumented children anew, Axios Mike Allens offer this take on the new Trump:Its like a fictional movie scene: A president wins election with harsh, anti-immigration rhetoric, then moves to terminate protections for kids of illegal immigrants. Hes ridiculed on both sides for his heartlessness  but cheered by a band of white voters who helped put him in office. Then he suddenly realizes he looks like a cold-hearted jerkand starts musing about going farther than President Obama got in providing permanent protections to those children of illegal immigrants.The deal for the DREAMers, who are still in limbo, never materialized. Trump resumed his usual habits of belittling the press, his opponents, and immigrants.It took 18 months, but it seems, for the most part, that the pundit class finally caught on: With Trump, what you get is what you see. But that means that now Trump is oddly frozen in amber. While he occasionally talks up the tax cut, his Supreme Court nominees, and the economy, the bulk of his stump speeches in support of Republican candidates is made up of the usual Trumpian flourishes. In a rally for Nevada senator Dean Heller, Trump claimed that Democrats wanted to give undocumented immigrants the right to voteand to give them cars, indeed Rolls Royces. He has continued to suggest, as he did in 2016, that, if put in power, Democrats would open the borders and abolish the Second Amendment. Despite unsuccessfully working to repeal Obamacareand successfully working to weaken itTrump has returned to 2016 claims that he will protect pre-existing conditions, as well as a host of other entitlements that the Republican Congress is hoping to undercut, including Medicare. (He also had the gall to claim that pre-existing conditions were imperiled by Democrats.) In Montana, he praised Greg Gianforte, who body-slammed a reporter from The Guardian in early 2017. Never wrestle him, any guy that can do a body slam, hes my kind of guy, hes my guy, Trump said of the congressman. And, two years after winning the presidency, he is still ranting about Hillary Clinton, now claiming that it was her campaign, not his, that colluded with the Russians.The consensus among many in the media is that Trumps repetitiveness, particularly on the issue of immigration, is tactical. This pure brute force from Trump could work, NBC News First Read briefing argued, because there is no equal response from Democrats. This brute force campaign built on fear-mongering, race-baiting, and conspiracy theories worked in 2018why not now? Mike Allen concurred, writing that immigration and stoking fear about Mexican immigrants propelled Trump to the White House. Trump is claiming that he can set the terms for the midterms, unveiling a new battle plan at recent rallies: This will be an election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law-and-order and common sense.But Kavanaugh may be more of a boon for Democrats than Republicanswhich could explain why Trump has emphasized the Democratic mob more than the Supreme Court justice. Immigration and law and order were the pillars of Trumps 2016 campaign. While Democrats have struggled to combat the GOPs immigration claimsor to put forth their own comprehensive solutionthey may not need to. Health care, not immigration, has been the dominant issue of the midterms so far. Trump is retreating to familiar territory because he doesnt have anywhere else to go, and Republicans are following him out of desperation. With an unpopular president and an even more unpopular agenda, these fear-based appeals may be Republicans only card. Voters are motivated by fear and theyre also motivated by anger, Newt Gingrich told The Washington Post. He was referring to the migrant caravan, but may as well have been describing the GOPs election strategy.Trumps race-based appeals have been effective for him politically, Maggie Haberman pointed out on Twitter. But what worked in 2016 may not work in 2018, and not simply because Trump isnt on the ballot, potentially depressing his supporters turnout. Theres a reason his rally venues have shrunken. Hes droning on about the same old things because he has very little to show for two years of unified Republican control of the government. His only legislative accomplishment is a tax bill that is hugely unpopular. His rallies in 2018 are a mix of ego-boosting and retreat to familiar territory. He has, two years into his presidency, become the political equivalent of a band that has been touring off the success of its first record for too long. The superfans are still buying it, but everyone else seems to be tuning it out.	Liberal
Its often said that the arc of history bends toward justice, but the arc of American history seems to bounce toward it instead. During Reconstruction in the 1860s and 1870s, the federal government campaigned to build a multiracial democracy in the South. That projects defeat in 1877 then ushered in 90 years of Redemption, mass disenfranchisement, and American racial apartheid. Only in the 1950s and 1960s did the civil-rights movement and the Warren Court finally drag the United States into genuine liberal democracy.Another dip now appears to be underway. President Donald Trump and the Roberts Court are poised to spark a Second Redemptionan era where federal enforcement of civil rights is no longer assured, where states are free to allow citizens to be discriminated against in housing and employment, where voting is a privilege instead of a right, and where a persons access to goods and services can be restricted by the beliefs of total strangers.The latest blow came over the weekend when the New York Times reported that the Trump administration is considering plans to roll back civil-rights protections for an estimated 1.4 million transgender Americans. Some federal courts have concluded that gender identity is covered by some existing federal laws that forbid discrimination on the basis of actual or perceived sex. But conservative policymakers in the administration disagree, arguing instead for a narrow definition of gender based on a persons assigned sex at birth. The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court on Wednesday to overturn a Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling in favor of a transgender worker, arguing that Section VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 doesnt cover discrimination against gay, lesbian, and transgender Americans.If the Trump administration succeeds, transgender Americans rights would rest on a patchwork array of state laws and local ordinances. Twenty states and the District of Columbia forbid discrimination on the basis of gender identity in housing, employment, and public accommodations. Another dozen states have limited legal protections for transgender people, while more than 15 states, mostly in the South and the Great Plains, have none.The geographic division roughly matches the divide on other matters of gender and sexuality. A Washington Post analysis in September found that abortion would automatically become illegal in 14 states under current laws if the Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade. (Roughly a dozen others could follow suit depending on the state legislatures makeup at the time.) Seven states allow pharmacists to refuse to fill a contraceptive prescription without referring it to another provider. Twenty-eight states dont have anti-discrimination laws for gay and lesbian Americans in situations like housing and employment. Seven states explicitly allow discrimination in adoptions and foster care.One of the most popular political cliches of the last few years is the notion that there are two Americas. But this is not simply an issue of political differences, of red states vs. blue states. Increasingly, there are two Americas in legal terms: one where citizens broadly enjoy a range of rights and legal protections, and one where they dont. As the federal protection of civil rights falters, and the Supreme Court lurches to the right, those differences are becoming severewith dire consequences for women, LGBT people, and many other disadvantaged citizens.Perhaps the most well-known chasm is over abortion rights. In theory, a womans right to obtain an abortion is protected from undue state interference by the Constitution under current Supreme Court precedent. In practice, however, the procedure is increasingly hard to obtain in the nations rural regions due to state laws designed to force abortion clinics to shutter. Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming each have a single clinic that performs abortions, while Kentucky, West Virginia, and Utah have two apiece. A 2014 survey by the Guttmacher Institute found that one in five American women has to travel more than 43 miles on average to the nearest clinic.Some of that distance can be attributed to simple geography and population density. But its also mediated by political forces. Louisiana, for example, is slated to have only a single clinic covering the entire state after the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a restrictive admitting-procedures law earlier this year. The Eighth Circuit recently refused to block a Missouri law that will leave a St. Louis clinic as the only available provider in the state. The confirmation of the staunchly conservative Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, replacing swing Justice Anthony Kennedy, raises the likelihood that similar measures will survive legal challenges, both in the lower courts and before the nations highest court.Indeed, the most probable future for reproductive rights is a balkanized one: Women in blue states will still have access to the procedure, while women in red states will face a gauntlet of regulatory hurdles or have to travel long distances to obtain it nearbyif they can at all. Every year in the United Kingdom, hundreds of Northern Irish women who cant obtain an abortion there cross the Irish Sea to have the procedure performed elsewhere in the country. The United States could see similar migrations by those with the ability to afford it in a post-Roe landscape.In Michigan earlier this year, a pharmacist at a Meijer supermarket refused to fill a 35-year-old womans prescription for the drug misoprostal. The womans physician prescribed her the drug to complete a miscarriage she had suffered, but the pharmacist refused to fill it because he was Catholic, according to a letter sent to Meijer by the American Civil Liberties Union on her behalf earlier this month. He also refused to let another pharmacist handle it or to transfer the prescription to another pharmacy. Unfortunately in Michigan, we dont have an explicit state law that goes so far as to protect patients like Rachel, an ACLU official told the Detroit Free Press.The episode appeared to be a potential sign of things to come. The Roberts Court has taken a keen interest in religious-liberty exemptions in recent years, often ruling in favor of those who tell the court that their religious convictions run counter to state and federal laws. In Burwell v. Hobby Lobby, the courts five conservative justices, including Kennedy, sided with the craft store chains claims that the Affordable Care Acts contraceptive mandate violated its religious freedom. The mandate required most American employers to offer insurance plans that covered contraceptives.In its ruling, the court held that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, also known as RFRA, allows the owners of certain types of corporations to opt out of government regulations if those regulations run counter to their religious beliefs. Though individuals had been able to make RFRA claims under the law, the court had never held that it applied to closely-held corporations as well. The justices decision pleased religious conservatives who see liberal policy-making as antithetical to their faith. By applying it to companies, however, employees could have their access to healthcare shaped by religious beliefs that may not match their own.Indeed, the ruling raised the specter that access to goods, services, and healthcare will be mediated by another persons religious beliefs. Last term, the justices heard Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, case involving a Christian baker who refused to bake a wedding cake for a same-sex couple, citing his personal religious beliefs. The Colorado Civil Rights Commission found that the baker had violated the states anti-discrimination law by refusing serve the couple because of their sexual orientation.In their ruling in June, the justices sidestepped whether the bakers First Amendment claim outweighed the states decision to protect gay and lesbian Americans from discrimination in the marketplace. Instead, they issued a narrow ruling in the bakers favor that found the state commission had violated the principle of religious neutrality by allegedly denigrating his beliefs during their deliberations. Without Kennedy, the courts leading figure on gay rights for two decades, the newly retrenched conservative justices could give conservatives Christians a legal path to bypass anti-discrimination laws that cover sexual orientation.The end result of all this may be a country that feels less like the United States of the late-twentieth century, and more like the patchwork collection of German states that made up the Holy Roman Empire after the Protestant Reformation. Just as each duke and prince was free to establish Catholicism, Lutheranism, or Calvinism in their territory, many Americans may soon live in a country where their rights and liberties fluctuate as they travel from one state to the next, or even from store to store on the city streets. The laws across a broad section of the country may provide a safe space for those writing them, and for no one else.	Liberal
At the very least, something seems to be missing in the usual explanations for his becoming president. They tend to fall into two plausible, if ultimately inadequate, schools of thought. One of them holds that Trump rose to power because a large slice of the electorate was left behind by the neoliberal agenda of free trade and tech-sector hegemony. Only someone with a very good job or a very small imagination would dismiss this view out of hand. Nevertheless, the fact remains that voters with the lousiest jobs or no jobs at allcategories in which minorities and immigrants aboundare no fans of Trump.Thus the second explanation: The success of Trumps demagoguery is driven by white nationalism and racist hate. This too comes with plenty of supporting evidence. Yet skeptics have a point in asking why so many of Trumps allegedly racist supporters would have cast their ballots not once but twice for Barack Obama. My strong suspicion is that along with the undoubted racists and xenophobes in the Trump camp are a number of uneducated white voters who do not hate blacks, Muslims, or Mexicans but rather the educated white liberals whom they suspect of caring more about blacks, Muslims, and Mexicans than about uneducated whites. When Trump said during his campaign, I love the poorly educated, he may have revealed more about whom many of his supporters truly hate than David Duke did when he endorsed Trump. So for those white liberals wringing their hands over the purported racism of Trumps supporters, there is good news and bad news: They dont all hate black folk. A lot of them just hate you.Hatred of some other, however construed, and a sense of betrayal by the powers that beboth make sense as contributing causes of the devotion Trump inspires. There may be a third cause, however, one easily overlookedpossibly because it is so deeply ingrained in the nations sensibilities as to escape notice. This third cause, which I will call nihilism, helps to account not only for Trump, but also and more importantly for the phenomena he has come to personify (berserker gun violence, climate-change denial, etc.)all of which were present before he entered the Oval Office and are likely to be around long after hes gone.Leaving nuanced definitions to the philosophers, I would define nihilism as a combination of three basic elements: a refusal to hope for anything except the ultimate vindication of hopelessness; a rejection of all values, especially values widely regarded as sacrosanct (equality, posterity, and legality); and a glorification of destruction, including self-destructionor as Walter Benjamin put it, self-alienation so extreme that humanity can experience its own destruction as an aesthetic pleasure. Nihilism is less passive and more perverse than simple despair. Nihilism is not only despair and negation, according to Albert Camus, but, above all, the desire to despair and to negate.A nihilist is someone who dedicates himself to not giving a shit, who thinks all meanings are shit, and who yearns with all his heart for the aesthetic pleasure of seeing the shit hit the fan. Arguing with a nihilist is like intimidating a suicide bomber: The usual threats and enticement have no effect. I suspect that is part of the appeal for both: the facile transcendence of placing oneself beyond all powers of persuasion. A nihilist is above you and your persnickety arguments in the same way that Trump fancies himself above the law.Comparisons with Nazi Germany are often too glibly made and always too glibly dismissed. History does not repeat itself, trueI do not expect to see Donald Trump sporting a mustache the width of his nosebut history does show that similar social conditions can produce comparable political effects. With that in mind, it may not be out of bounds to quote from a nearly forgotten book by Nazi turncoat Hermann Rauschning called The Revolution of Nihilism. Published in 1939, and subtitled Warning to the West, the book characterizes Hitlerism as a form of vacuous dynamism with no fixed aims and no program at all. A movement of utter nihilism, it is kept alive in the masses only in the form of permanent pugnacity.As early as 1932, Rauschning writes, Hitler was out to liberate himself from all party doctrines in economic policy, and he did the same in all other fields, believing that the things that stir most men and fire their enthusiasm are the rhythm, the new tempo, the activity, that take them out of the humdrum daily life. Especially if Im reading at the end of a tiring day, this is the point at which I start losing track of whether Rauschning is talking about National Socialism or social media, but he has already said what he is talking about; he is talking about nihilism, which means that I wasnt dozing after all.For those white liberals wringing their hands over the purported racism of Trumps base, there is good news and bad news: They dont all hate black folk. A lot of them just hate you.I suppose that if Im going to define nihilism as a lack of valuesor to use Rauschnings summation of Nazism, a hostility to the things of the spirit, indifference to truth, indifference to the ethical conceptions of morality, honor, and equityIm obliged to say what I mean by a value. I would call it any kind of allegiance for which you are willing to check your own desires for reasons other than pure self-interest. All values manifest themselves in restraint. Youd like to pitch out all those empty wine bottles, but you recycle them instead. Youre late for a doctors appointment but slow down your car so as not to hit a pedestrian crossing the street. (If your sole motivation is not to get gore on your front bumper, that is something else.) Values are by their very nature at odds with the amoral dynamism Rauschning describes; they are what applies the brakes. They also threaten the dynamism of an advanced capitalist economy by daring to suggest that something lower than the sky might be the limit. All the nameable avatars of the Almighty Marketpop psychology, digital fundamentalism, addictive consumption, cutthroat competitionare based on the premise that what you want is what you ought to have, and the quicker you can have it the better. By its very operation, the market inclines us away from principled restraint and toward nihilistic abandon.For that reason, its probably a mistake to view nihilism as an explanation apart from the common analyses of the Trump phenomenon. Economic dispossession and virulent racism stand in relation to nihilism not as alternative theories but as reciprocal causes and effects. In other words, all three flourish in a moral vacuum. Tony Judt remarked on the moralized quality of political debates of the post-World War II era, reminiscent of those 19th century radicals driven by the belief that there were moral rules to economic life. He saw that quality in stark contrast to the selfish amoralism of Thatcher and Reagan. What does rising income inequality imply if not a falling moral barometer? The question is as old as the prophet Isaiah.In the same way, it would be difficult to draw a sharp line between nihilism and racism, or to find a trace of one without some germ of the other. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equala twenty-first-century reader is almost made dizzy by the simultaneous affirmation that such things as truth, self-evident truth, and human equality exist (along with the gross depravity of the slaveholders who wrote and signed the document, though they could not escape the reproach of its implications). All societies, and certainly all democratic societies, rest on the notion that some values are self-evident. That is surely what Walt Whitman means when, after celebrating himself and singing himself, he goes on to say, and what I assume you shall assume. The fundamental equality of your self and my self is what allows us to have common assumptions and to believe they are common. Lose hold of that faith and no body camera on earth will capture the resulting disconnect, because people will not accept that the murder they witnessed really happened or that the unarmed suspect bleeding on the sidewalk was a human being who felt a bullet the same way they would. A sense of radical incredulity, spectacularly typified by Trumps refusal to believe his own intelligence services, is but one manifestation of the nihilism that brought him to power. What makes him the real deal in the eyes of his most ardent admirers is largely his insistence that almost everything else is fake. Like him, they know that the news is fake, the melting ice caps are fake, the purported citizenship of certain voters is fake, science is fake, social justice is fake, the whole notion of truth is fake. Whatever isnt fake is so relative that it might as well be fake; true for you, maybe, but thats as far as it goes. Among those who call themselves believers and are thus at least technically not nihilists, one frequently finds an obsession with apocalypse, a gleeful anticipation of the living end that will destroy the inherent fakery of all things. The social teachings of the Gospels need not trouble the Christian conscience so long as the troubles predicted in Revelation come to pass.Not that Revelation features any event quite so diabolically nihilisticand, yes, unbelievableas a school shooting. The person looking for nihilism in its purest form need look no further than the de facto normalization of gunning down schoolchildren as an act of free expressionand, what is more, as an expression of nothing much in particular beyond the whim to do it. Less a cry for help than a grunt of whatever. What makes school shootings almost as interesting as they are atrocious is that they place an insupportable burden of proof on people whose knee-jerk response to any social calamity is to say, This stuff has always gone on, we just didnt hear about it. Actually, no. In the same way as antecedents for Donald Trump can be found in Roman tribunes and Nazi demagogues but not in any previous American president, you will search the historical record in vain for persuasive evidence confuting that nihilism in this country is something new.New doesnt preclude boring, of course. In less murderous forms, you can see nihilism at work in the banal iconoclasm that exults in anything outrageous, provocative, or transgressive, that sees no qualitative difference between the offensive and the genuine. So you have Columbine, and then you have radio talk show host Howard Stern marveling aloud why the killers didnt pause during the slaughter to have sex with the really good-looking girls running with their hands over their heads. Definition of a nihilist: someone who thinks nothing contained in the envelope is ever as important as pushing it. One must shock the bourgeois, Baudelaire is supposed to have said, speaking at a time when the bourgeoisie could still be shocked. I wonder what Baudelaire would have made of late-night TV. I wonder how many of those who tuned in to Saturday Night Live to see Alec Baldwin impersonating Donald Trump realized the extent to which Trump himself is an impersonation of Saturday Night Live.The reason Trump has managed to get away with a truckload of gaffes and indiscretions, any one of which would have destroyed the career of another politician, is precisely because they make up a truckload. They do not constitute a singular blot on his character; they certify his identity. They prove him to be an authentic iconoclast, a superhero of transgression, the guy who brags about grabbing womens crotches, makes fun of war heroes, and speaks unashamedly of waging nuclear war. He makes Iggy Pop look like Cotton Mather. He can be scary, but hes never square. He can even shock the bourgeoisie, who as it turns out dont much mind being shocked, having learned long ago that a little innocuous subversion is a hell of a lot cheaper than paying more taxes or raising the minimum wage.Americans are more infected by this ethos than they might think. Heres an easy way to test that proposition. When the activist African American pastor William J. Barber II speaks of the need to restore morality to public discourse, are you slightly embarrassed? Do you wonder to yourself, Can he really be saying that? or wish he could find a less, shall we say, moralistic way to put it? I happen to think hes hit the nail squarely on the head, although, to tell you the truth, I am a bit shocked.Nihilism can be simply defined and readily observed, but its causes are probably as complex as human beings themselves. Some can be located in certain primal emotions and the irrational behaviors they generate. Others I would locate in the workings of capitalism. Obviously, there is not always a clear distinction between the two. Capitalism can be seen, and has even been defended, as the systemic expression of unregenerate human nature. Trading in the stock market can be a highly primal affair. Not for nothing do investors speak of having made a killing on Wall Street.Of the relevant causal emotions, perhaps the most primal is fear, and the impulse to overcome fear through recklessness. (It goes without saying that Trumps presidency is simultaneously a response to fear, a stoker of fear, and a reason to fear.) All men kill the thing they love, Oscar Wilde writes, and perhaps most ruthlessly when the thing they loveor have convinced themselves they no longer loveis under threat. Need I say that the thing being killed is America?Another pertinent factor is envy, a basic human emotion that rising social inequality can only exacerbate. To put it in cruder terms: The world sucks for me, so I am going to make it suck for you too. I have lost my job, my status as a white male, and may even lose my gun. So you, my smug, privileged friend, are going to lose your civil liberties, your faith in social progress, your endangered species, your affirmative action, your reproductive freedom, your international alliances, your wonderful exchange student from Syria. The rationale is probably not too distant from that of the jealous husband who shoots his wife, her lover, and himself. Enjoying ourselves, are we? We will enjoy nothing!which is to say, we will enjoy the only thing a nihilist can enjoy.Whether envy also figures in the eschatological fantasies of lower-middle-class evangelicals is perhaps too speculative to discuss, though vengeful envy has been an observable factor in outbreaks of apocalyptic fervor throughout history. One of the pleasures of heaven, according to Tertullian, the second-century theologian known as the father of Latin Christianity, would be watching ones former persecutors roast in hell. That this was addressed to people who had literally seen their loved ones burned alive and has been derided ever since by people whose closest brush with burning occurred when they forgot their sunscreen does not diminish its relevance. Surely there are people who thrill at the thought of FDR or JFK, if not roasting in hell, then rolling in their patrician graves every time Trump sends a tweet.Along with primal emotions, always more acute in times of social stress, are certain mechanisms innate to capitalism. I am hardly the first to note that capitalism tends toward nihilism by reducing all values to market values. As Marx and Engels put it, capitalism has left remaining no other nexus between man and man than naked self-interest, than callous cash payment. ... It has resolved personal worth into exchange value. Granted, capitalism makes use of belief systems in its ascent, but eventually eats them up like the proverbial female spider who devours her mate. If a Protestant ethic will make workers go more obediently into the factories, then capitalism will extol the Protestant ethic; but if blasphemy begins to move merchandise at the mall, then it will blaspheme to the point of making Beelzebub blush. If democracy furthers profit, then long live democracy; if democracy impedes profit, then long live Citizens United and private security forces flown in to beat back the disaster-riled mobs. In the capitalist bible, profit and loss always trump the Law and the Prophets.The winner-take-all strain of capitalism also fosters nihilism by depriving certain classes of key ingredients that make or buttress a sense of purpose: work, family, social usefulness.The winner-take-all strain of capitalism also fosters nihilism by depriving certain classes of key ingredients that make or buttress a sense of purpose: work, family, social usefulness. How does an unemployed 35-year-old living in his parents basement make his life seem meaningful to himself, or at the least notable to others, especially if he lives in a culture where meaning and notoriety increasingly come down to the same thing? Perhaps by defying the taboo against murdering ones parents. Perhaps by defying the taboo against murdering schoolchildren. Perhaps by defying both.But the nihilism of the capitalist system is not confined to the social and cultural margins, to misfits in basements and meth-dealers on Harleys. In recent decades it has received influential support and exquisite expression from certain sectors of the intelligentsia. Others before me have pointed out how the theoretical game-play and moral relativism of the postmodern academymasquerading as left-wing analysis no less!serve the capitalist project. If there are no grand narratives, no self-evident truths, no straightforward texts, no criteria for determining artistic merit, then there is surely nothing to stop us from deconstructing such obsolete products as The New York Times and the Bill of Rightsor even, as so many academics seem obtusely unable to grasp, to deconstruct the self-evident merits of diversity itself? If you preach iconoclasm while dedicating a rainbow-colored stained-glass window, you shouldnt be too surprised if somebody picks up a rock. Ultimately, you are left with no unassailable value but monetary value, the amount of your fellowship grant, the unpaid portion of your student loan.Its common to speak of Trump as a character out of a TV show; he might just as easily be viewed as a transplant from a cultural studies department (where much time is devoted to the study of TV shows). In his disdain for science, in the subjectivity of his worldview, in his radically solipsistic moral relativism (things are good or bad as they relate to him), he is a postmodern hero par excellence, Derrida with a funny haircut and a thousand-dollar suit. To put it more succinctly, he is the ungainly chicken of late-stage capitalism come home to roost.Some will object that few people sporting a Make America Great Again baseball cap are going to have read postmodernist theory, so any claim of a cause-and-effect relationship here is ludicrous. No, the objection is ludicrous. It is like saying that a seabird cannot show up on a beach covered in petroleum since a seabird is obviously not an oil tanker. Culture is a highly permeable ecosystem. Mike Pence was influenced by Lady Gaga even if he couldnt pick her out of a lineup. I have always thought of Ronald Reagan as the last of the California hippies, blithe in his stoned assurance that America could reach the New Jerusalem if everybody was left alone to do his own thing and consult his own astrologer. In the same way, I think of Mark Zuckerberg as an Ivy League Hells Angel. The Facebook motto Move Fast and Break Things wasnt coined by Ralph Sonny Barger or his leather-clad sidekick Doug the Thug Orr, but it might as well have been. Ditto for Steve Jobss claim of having put a ding in the universe. When the universe itself is fair game for dinging, can nihilism be far behind?Another tendency driven by the market, driven harder still by the information economys relentless creative destruction, is the compulsion to detect and get ahead of the latest trend. I suspect this compulsion will soon be as hardwired into our brain stems as the fight-or-flight response. If you asked me what Americans today fear more than anything else, I would answer that they fear being left behind. (The anxiety even comes with its own handy acronym: FOMO, or Fear of Missing Out.) They fear missing the boat, foundering in the backwash of the next wave. And what if the next wave is wholesale destruction? Common sense would say that you set about piling sandbags, but this would be as unthinkable to many people as resisting the depredations of Amazon by patronizing their local independent bookstore. Instead, the reflex is to make a pact with the vandals, to collaborate with them. To be ahead of the curve. Better to be with the destroyers than with the destroyed. If the barbarians are at the gates, best to dress up as a barbarian. More than a few servile Republican members of Congress seem to have drawn that conclusion in regard to Trump.Finally, nihilism may emerge when people feel overwhelmed by their societies. This is where primal emotions and capitalist dynamism meet: in the moral deadening that comes of having few significant choices and infinite trivial ones. I suspect that somewhere in the heart of many Americans is the wish to see it all come apart because the all is simply too much to reckon with, too much to bear. King Lear calls on the hurricanes to blast the world and spill the germens that make humankind. Trump is too preposterous to be a Lear figure, but his rants may resonate with a Lear-like nerve in those weary of the world. Let the curtain come down. Let us finally be done.I once caused a minor flap in a restaurant by referring to myself as a customer. I intended no offense. The imperious restaurateur thrust out his bared chest (he was wearing a low-cut caftan) and repeated the word as though Id just piddled on his rug. I meekly corrected my usage to guest, whereupon he lowered his chin enough to indicate that I might possibly deserve to see a menu. His fastidiousness did not extend to the matter of the bill.Im told the place has since closed, though it will always be in operation for me as a metaphor. As metaphors go, its a bit complicated. The simple way to read it is like this: At the haughty urging of our hosts, we in capitalist America think of ourselves as liberals, progressives, conservatives, patriots, pacifists, intersectional-feminist-Marxist-Buddhist environmentalists, but what we are at the end of the day is a country of customers. If you doubt it, wait for the bill, which, if you have trouble paying, will tell you the other thing you are. Not that Marx hasnt already told you. You can tattoo your eyelids if it makes you feel a tad more subversive, like a tech mogul packing his billionaire buns into a pair of jeans, but when they come to clear away the plates, hes the guy who owns Facebook and you are just another face.It would be tempting to leave it at that, but far too doctrinaire. Reflecting further on my faux pas, Ive come to appreciate that the restaurateur saw the possibility of a value beyond the monetary transaction of our business. If the food I ate was deliciouswhich it wasthat owed in part to his refusal to see his work solely in terms of his proprietorship and my patronage. Yes, there was something disingenuous in his regarding me as a guest, but there was also something crass and reductive in my calling myself a customer, especially after hed gone to all the trouble of practically putting on a bathrobe so we could both feel more at home.Ive never stayed at a Trump hotel, where Im sure all the customers are called guests, but I suspect that the man behind the brand doesnt much care if they call themselves customers. As long as they pay up at the end of their stay, they can call themselves any damn thing they like.And here may be yet another factor that draws people to Trump and draws them to nihilism as well: the suspicion that the moral niceties of their fellow Americans are either disingenuous or delusional. It is the inevitable disillusionment that comes of meeting Thomas Jefferson with Sally Hemings while the Devil whispers in your ear, Heard any declarations of independence lately? All too easily you can move from realizing that Jefferson is something of a humbug to believing that the equality he declared self-evident is humbug too, whereupon you have also moved from being justifiably indignant at meeting a Founding Fathers enslaved mistress to rejecting your best reason for wanting her free.The same temptation can occur in less momentous deflations, whenever insincerity peeks from under a euphemismwhenever the guest turns out to be a customer. And it may be especially tempting when a culture suspicious of moral imperatives replaces them with the notion that sincerity is the highest virtue and hypocrisy the gravest fault. I cant say if hes wrong or right, but hes totally sincere. The political philosopher Judith Shklar, who sees some degree of hypocrisy as essential to the workings of a liberal democracy (she cites the rascally Benjamin Franklin as a case in point), notes how endless accusations of hypocrisy invariably pursued the most capable statesmen in American history because they had raised the level of moral and political expectations and failed to fulfill the standards they had themselves revived. The corollary for the least capable statesmen is only too clear: In a moral universe where good and evil have been reduced to sincerity and hypocrisy, Donald Trump (the liar who believes his own lies) will always play the honest angel to Ben Franklins duplicitous imp.It may be that nihilism, or Trumpism if you prefer, is the indignant customers reaction to being told for the thousandth time that he is something better than a customer when he has a thousand reasons for knowing thats what he is and often all he is. On the one hand, his is a cynical denial that hospitality, idealism, and labors of love exist, an insistence on seeing every instance of venial human hypocrisy as proof of a meaningless void. (Those Clintons, who do they think theyre kidding?) On the other hand, isnt it also a pathetic yearning for truth, even on the part of someone who may no longer believe that truth exists? American nihilism is an oozing sore, but like an oozing sore it is evidence both of a malady and of a bodys desperate attempt to heal itself. What I mean to say, if only for my own edification, is that some compassion for the wounded is in order here.The difference between a genuine prophet of doom and a mere doomsayer (I think of myself as neither) is that the former hopes he is wrong. A recent event strongly suggested that America is hardly a nation of nihilists or is in any present danger from the purported nihilism of a benighted few. The cruel separation of migrant parents and children brought forth an exhilarating storm of outrage and bipartisan rebuke. Four former first ladies (Carter, Bush, Clinton, Obama) were belting out the same righteous songimmoral, disgraceful, a humanitarian crisis. Given so heinous a crime, the ladies could hardly protest too much, though its possible we made too much of the protest.For one thing, the separations had happened. Whatever you want to call them, unthinkable will not do; the word lost any pertinence as soon as the first kid screamed. For another, the separations happened over a period not of days but of months. Not least of all, they happened within a complex logistical framework. Who can adequately comprehend the degree of coordination and moral acquiescence required to move hundreds of Central American children from the southern border to the city of New York? Perhaps no one so well as a parent who has tried to get two of his or her own kids from a New York apartment to the beach. To get as far as it did, the operation required a number of operatives not only willing to simply follow orders but also able to make thoughtful adjustments along the way. Automation is coming, Ive been told, but these children were not whisked away by droids. It would be less disturbing if they were.Against nihilism only love can prevail. That is because love must always affirm a value, both the value of the loved one and the value of the love itself. It cannot do otherwise. One also observed a disquieting awkwardness as people scrambled for an acceptable explanation as to why kidnapping was wrong. Un-American appeared to trump immoral, an admittedly blameless choice of words, though it had the unfortunate effect of echoing the nationalist chauvinism of the president himself. He took kids away from their parents in the name of making America great again; his critics demanded he put the kids back in the name of being more authentically American. Am I a killjoy for feeling insufficiently soothed? I happen to own and fly an American flag, but if you want me to swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, its not the first place Im going to put my hand. I was reminded of the debates over enhanced interrogation techniques that followed September 11, with some commentators arguing that torture might be permissible in certain extraordinary cases (no rigid binaries like good and evil for those folks) and others arguing against torture on the sublimely moral high ground that it doesnt yield reliable information. I suppose that someone about to be waterboarded for the tenth time will be grateful for any sort of preemptive argument, even one so grossly utilitarian, but Amnesty International will surely want a better slogan than only if it works.Its possible we will never know when or if all of these families have been reunited. Its probable that many of us will have lost our zeal for redress long before the last traumatized children are returned to their parents. In the process of constructing this very paragraph, I realized with a jolt that I could not recall whether the special prison at Guantnamo Bay had been closed. I knew thered been talk of closing it. Were there still a few inmates? Were they moved or set free? I had to go and ask my wife, whos better than I am at staying current. No, honey, its still there.Much has been written (especially about the young, because that is where adults like to locate cultural pathologies) regarding the shortness of the nations collective attention span, about information overload and its numbing effects. Less is written about the minuscule distance that exists between a short attention span and defective moral agency. Most people of conscience would agree that the true test of moral integrity is a principled act, but to perform such an act one needs to have enough presence of mind to move from the principle to its application. To demonstrate your commitment to ice cream, you need to remember why you got up to go to the fridge. Inattention is the gateway drug to nihilism. Distraction is the stealth weapon of the powers that be. Muscle-bound with information, we stand in front of our mirrors and flex. Knowledge is power, we croak through strained faces, adjusting our pose a few inches to the left or the right because our legs are falling asleep. Not long ago I asked a veteran union organizer named Larry Fox what he had learned from his 40-plus years in the labor movement. Somewhat to my surprise, he said he had learned that love is a stronger motivating force for social change than anger.The answer impressed me for two reasons. First, it brought to mind something the American socialist Michael Harrington had written in the early 1970s, around the same time as the angrier of his New Left comrades were falling under the spell of guns and bombs. It was as a socialist, and because I was a socialist, that I fell in love with America, he said, adding this note of prophetic warning: If the Left wants to change this country because it hates it, then the people will never listen to the Left and the people will be right. (Any self-satisfied right-wingers smirking at the partial fulfillment of Harringtons prophecy should understand that the same goes for them.)Second, I was struck that Fox, like Harrington, was uninhibited by sophistication. He was seemingly unaware that someone like him shouldnt be saying something like that. As with the Reverend Barbers use of the word morality, I realized that what Im discussing here as a national predicament was in some ways manifest in my own awkward reaction to a word like love. In spite of my various convictions, nihilism had rubbed off on me.Against nihilism only love can prevail. That is because love must always affirm a value, both the value of the loved one and the value of the love itself. It cannot do otherwise. But heres the catch: A love capable of confronting nihilism must be nothing less than the militant, self-sacrificial force that it was for Martin Luther King Jr. If a man has not discovered something that he will die for, he isnt fit to live, King said. In light of that statement, one could say that Trump-era America has become a nation of people whose fitness to live is at serious risk. Were it not, they would view the question Are you prepared to die for your country? as a tactical consideration instead of a plebeian breach of good taste. They would view the nations children as something more than an investment in the future. They would not speak of martyrdom as a form of pathology.But arent martyrdom and nihilism close cousins? If youre asking that with a straight face, then you too have been bitten by the nihilistic bugor else have confined your understanding of martyrdom to those who strap on suicide vests. With terms derived from Nietzsche, Slavoj iek writes of a defining split between the passive nihilism of First World countries, whose inhabitants find it more and more difficult even to imagine a public or universal cause for which one would be ready to sacrifice ones life, and the active nihilism of Third World militants who dedicate their lives to some transcendent cause, even to the point of self-destruction. In so doing, he blurs the distinction between those who would gladly kill for a cause and those who would reluctantly die for it. (He may also be making too neat a division between the First and Third worlds.) Martyrdom and nihilism are as different as Gandhi and Genghis Khan. A nihilist dreams of going out in a blaze of glory, taking as many with him as he can, because he hates his life and despises life in general. A martyr sacrifices her life, which by definition she cannot do unless that life is precious to her. You can only sacrifice what you hold dear. And you do so because something else is dearer still.The recent plethora of school shootings makes plain not only the costs of weak gun laws, the risks of untreated mental illness, and the tragic repercussions of rearing children through the proxies of digital media and abandoning them to the tender mercies of the NRAbut also what amounts to the national morality play of this moment: nihilism versus self-sacrificing love. The indiscriminate shooter versus the teacher who throws his or her body at the shooter or on top of a wounded studentthat is the mirror, that is the choice, that is the split image that keeps coming up on the screen. Whats happening in our schools may soon be happening in our streets, and not for the first time. King was speaking of what he had witnessed in Alabama no less than of what he believed in his heart. You know that punning slogan often seen at anti-Trump protests, Love Trumps Hate? If it seems a bit saccharine to you now, that is only because you have yet to tally what building a beloved community might cost. Youre forgetting all the architects who paid the first installments with their blood.	Liberal
Senator Bernie Sanders wants to be presidenthe made that much clear with his energized campaign in 2016. Senator Elizabeth Warren does, too, as several recent moves show. They both have widespread name recognition and share similar political philosophies. Is there room enough in a Democratic primary for the two of them? That was the premise of a Politico article last week about how the two progressive behemoths [are] on a collision course in the presidential primary. Sanders told the outlet that he has not spoken to Warren about their respective ambitions, but added, I suspect that in the coming weeks and months, there will be discussions. Warren and Sanders recognize that they share the same lane in a presidential race: Theyre both populists dedicated to fighting economic inequality. Splitting the vote and missing the opportunity to elevate that signature issue in presidential politics would be a worse fate than any extinguished personal ambition.But Warren and Sanders are hardly identical progressives. They have markedly different approaches to empowering the working class. In the simplest possible terms, Warren wants to organize markets to benefit workers and consumers, while Sanders wants to overhaul those markets, taking the private sector out of it. This divideand where Warren or Sanderss putative rivals position themselves on itwill determine the future of the Democratic Party for the next decade or more.Warrens suite of policies, rolled out in recent months, all try to reform rules that empower the wealthy at the expense of regular Americans. Her Accountable Capitalism Act would ensure worker representation on corporate boards, and require large corporations to consider all its stakeholdersnot just investors but workers, consumers, and communities of interestin any decision-making. Her climate bill would force public companies to disclose climate-related risks, giving investors more information to use their money toward sustainable goals. Her housing bill would transfer money for affordable housing to communities that adopt zoning policies to make it easier to build. Her 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act seeks structural separation of commercial and investment banks to keep companies making the riskiest trades away from taxpayer-funded bailouts. And the Anti-Corruption and Public Integrity Act would buttress these gains by reducing the role of special interest lobbying in federal policymaking. Sanders, while concerned with making markets fairer, would rather just rip them up, either through limiting how much companies can grow or instituting publicly funded options alongside them. He would put a hard cap on the size of financial institutions to make them more manageable. He would make public colleges and universities tuition-free, rather than expanding access for certain needy students. He would create a federal jobs guarantee through 2,500 American Job Centers nationwide, and he estimates that his $1 trillion infrastructure investment would support 13 million publicly funded jobs as well. And in health care, he would simply nationalize the insurance sector, putting everyone on a Medicare-style plan. I am leaving out some nuance. Both Warren and Sanders support single-payer health care, an example of nationalizing a market. They both want a public option for financial services through simple bank transactions at the post office. Sanderss Workplace Democracy Act changes the rules to make it easier to form unions, a classic market-restructuring move. His proposed bill to tax employers whose workers receive federal benefits influenced Amazons increase of its entry-level wages, and that was the intent: organizing private-sector labor markets without taking them over or imposing standards.But the two senators disagree over the best method to give the working classes a leg up. You can restructure markets so everyone benefits, or you can break down the market system, either eliminating the profit motive or giving everybody a public option. The impulse is the same: The game is rigged and must be fixed. But theres a long gap between re-writing the rules of the game, as Warren wants, and turning over all the chess pieces, as Sanders does.What makes more sense? Its not necessarily a clear-cut choice. Market-based health care has proven more expensive everywhere its been tried, and as practiced in the United States it leads to worse outcomes. Even there, however, market competition can yield success. One of Warrens biggest legislative victories involved breaking up the hearing aid oligopoly, which required doctor prescriptions for all audiological devices. Since passing a Warren-written law allowing for FDA-approved, over-the-counter hearing aids without medical evaluation, competitors have jumped into the space, driving down the cost of audio assistance for everyone.Liberals prefer the concept of a mixed economywhich even Sanders supports, more than his democratic socialist branding would imply. Competition can come from the public sector or the private sector: Breaking up the banks through size caps, or separating their investment and deposit-taking wings, gets you to the same place functionally. The public sector may be better positioned to build a road, and the private sector better positioned to sell you sandwiches. Theres room for this mixture, but only if markets are bent to the will of the people, as in Warrens conception. As long as the private sector can get away with pursuing profit at the expense of the public, even the deepest interventions into the market might not succeed. Even under single-payer health care, private hospitals and other providers would still be delivering medical care, and they are so concentrated that they would still facilitate waste and frustrate outcomes. Plus, on a practical basis you can certainly restructure markets faster, in many cases without new approval from Congress. For example, antitrust laws still exist, and regulators with sufficient political will can start enforcing them.Sanderss policies are appealing to voters in the way that throwing out a system that doesnt work is inevitably more appealing than tweaking it. But fighting corporate power and making the rules work for people can also resonate on the campaign trail. Warren has been talking about how the game is rigged as long as Sanders has. Thats why you see competitors to Warren and Sanders alternately picking up market-restructuring and market-overhaul policies. Senator Cory Booker wants to transfer wealth to young people through a social wealth fund, and also block mergers in food and agriculture markets. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand wants a public option with postal banking and a financial transaction tax to nudge markets away from securities trading.  The decision between Warren and Sanders as the standard-bearer on the left is not merely about personality or electability. It will have implications about what Democrats stand for: a party that wants to make capitalism work for everyone, or one that will nationalize parts of capitalism that dont work. Ultimately, Democratic voters will have to decide which vision they prefer.	Liberal
A record-breaking hurricane slams into a United States territory. The U.S. government is supposed to respond to the damage. But the government is overstretched, and the island is remote. Amid poor transportation, the response suffers. Thousands die.This might sound like the story of Puerto Rico and Hurricane Maria. But it could easily become the story of the Northern Mariana Islands and Super Typhoon Yutu, a Category 5-equivalent storm that passed over the U.S. territory in the Pacific Ocean on Wednesday. In the northwest Pacific, hurricanes are called typhoons; super typhoons are hurricanes with sustained winds above 150 miles per hour. And based on early estimations, Super Typhoon Yutu may be the strongest hurricane to ever hit U.S. soil, a devastating reminder both of the precarious, second-class citizen position of U.S. territories and of the storm readiness issues the U.S. will have to face as climate change accelerates.Yutu is certainly the strongest storm to form on earth this year. With sustained winds of up to 180 miles per hour, its also likely to be unprecedented in modern history for the Northern Mariana Islands ... home to slightly more than 50,000 people, according to The Washington Post. The majority of those people live on the island of Saipanwhich the storms inner eyewall directly passed overalong with the smaller island of Tinian. Judging from the crickets on major U.S. news sites, who would ever know that a hurricane (#Yutu) is expected to slam into a U.S. commonwealth as a Category 5 storm in about 12 hours? Most of the 53,000 residents of the #northernmarianas are U.S. citizens https://t.co/HSBnZqcxy3 pic.twitter.com/FPGettue3KThe degree of damage is yet unclear. But Michael Lowry, a strategic planner for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), predicted a devastating strike on Saipan. This is a historically significant event, he tweeted, calling Yutu one of the most intense tropical cyclones weve observed worldwide in the modern record. Smaller storms have also wreaked havoc on Saipan in the past; Typhoon Soudelor hit Saipan in 2015 with maximum sustained winds of 105 miles per hour and wiped out much of the islands power infrastructure. A month before that, another typhoon passed over the island and disconnected an undersea cable, effectively severing communications between the Northern Mariana Islands and the rest of the world for a few days, HuffPost reported at the time.Response and recovery will likely prove challenging. Saipan and Tinian are extremely remote; the closest large countries are Japan and the Philippines, both of which are more than 1,000 miles away. Hawaii, nearly 4,000 miles away, is the closest U.S. state. FEMA thus considers the Northern Mariana Islands an insular area, meaning they face unique challenges in receiving assistance from outside the jurisdiction quickly.Yutu is also striking at the worst possible time. The islands already recovering from Super Typhoon Mangkhut, which slammed into the territory with 105 miles per hour winds last month. Mangkhut prompted President Donald Trump to sign a major disaster declaration for the islands, making federal funding available for both temporary and permanent rebuilding. But a major disaster declaration has not yet been declared for Yutuonly an emergency declaration, which makes federal money available for debris removal and emergency protective measures. Its likely Trump will issue a major disaster declaration for Yutu eventually. But if the past is any indication, it might take a while. His major disaster declaration for Mangkhut, for instance, didnt come until September 29thand the storm hit the islands on September 10. Trump was also criticized for his slow response to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Ricoanother remote island U.S. territory that was struggling to recover from an earlier storm when it was hit by an even stronger one. Hopefully, the administration has learned how deadly delay can be.	Liberal
No matter when, or how, Donald Trump leaves office, he will have dramatically remade the federal judiciary. His administration has struggled to achieve its goals on health care, the border, and infrastructurebut succeeded all too well with the courts. Trump took office with 105 vacancies in the federal district and appellate courts, almost twice the number Obama had in 2009, and Republicans have rushed to fill them, installing more than 50 judges. The impact of these jurists will be lasting; on the circuit courts, they are on average just 49 years old.Whatever Trump does at the federal level, Democrats still have a fighting chance in the states. Neither Congress nor the president can control the selection of state judges. Term limits and regular elections make them more responsive to popular sentiment than their federal counterparts, who remain in office for life. (Until his death in August, there was a federal judge nominated by JFK on the bench.) This means that even in states like North Carolina, which Donald Trump won in 2016, there can still be a liberal majority on the Supreme Court; and crucially, their decisions are rarely overturned by the federal Supreme Court, which typically avoids interpreting state constitutions.Some Democrats seem to understand the opportunity this presents. Everything from family law to much of criminal law to our education system here has been affected by a decision of the state Supreme Court, said Anita Earls, a civil rights lawyer running for a seat on North Carolinas top court. Those courtrooms may soon be among the last remaining venues in which to pursue a liberal legal agenda. The state courts are going to be a place where were going to be fighting about all of the issues that are important to peoples liberty, peoples equality, said Samuel Bagenstos, a law professor from Ann Arbor, Michigan, who is running for the Supreme Court there.In some states, they already are fighting. In Massachusetts last year, the court ruled that state and local police could not detain immigrants solely to buy time for federal law enforcement to take them into custody. In Pennsylvania this past January, the Supreme Court forced the state to redraw its congressional map, which was so gerrymandered, the justices wrote, that it clearly, plainly, and palpably violated its constitution. And in Iowa, in June, the state Supreme Court ruled that reproductive autonomy was protected under the state constitution, meaning that abortion would be legal in the state even if Roe v. Wade were overturned.A more liberal judiciary in other states could make similar rulings possible. While the Michigan Supreme Court has handed down staunch conservative rulings in recent environmental and labor cases, its ideological balance could shift this November, if Bagenstos and one other liberal can win. In Texas, three seats on the Supreme Court are also on the ballot, and if a single Democrat is elected, he or she would be the first liberal to sit on the court in 24 years. Two Democratic candidates for seats on Ohios Supreme Court could provide a vocal liberal minority to challenge conservative rulings on voter suppression and gerrymandering. And in April, Wisconsin elected Rebecca Dallet, a candidate backed by state Democrats, to its Supreme Court, which until now has consistently ruled in favor of Republican Governor Scott Walkers agenda on such issues as public sector unions and his own recall election.Meanwhile, some states are considering amending their constitutions to address issues that federal courts, now that they are increasingly conservative, wont address. Florida, for instance, will vote on a major amendment to end felon disenfranchisement, a racially discriminatory practice that the U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly upheld as constitutional. If the amendment passes, and the measure is challenged legally, the state Supreme Court, no matter its political leanings, would have to expand ballot access. Colorado, Michigan, and Utah have also advanced state constitutional amendments that, if implemented, would allow independent commissions to redraw gerrymandered districts instead of state lawmakersa key issue as legislators prepare for redistricting after the 2020 census. And Hawaiis voters will even decide whether to hold a convention to rewrite their states constitution in its entirety.Republicans understand the stakes and in some instances have resorted to extreme measures to take, or retain, control of the state courts. In August, the West Virginia House of Delegates voted to impeach all four sitting justices on the states highest court. Lawmakers defended the move as an effort to restore good governmentthe justices were accused of lavish and ethically dubious expenditures, including the purchase of a $42,000 desk and a $32,000 couchbut critics saw it as an effort by the Republican state government to seize control. (One of the justices has already retired; the other three will remain on the bench pending a trial to remove them in the state Senate, when they would almost certainly be replaced by more conservative jurists.) In North Carolina, Republican legislators went even further to take back the state court: They have added a constitutional amendment to the ballot in November that would let them pack the Supreme Court with two additional judges. If passed, it would turn a 43 Democratic majority into a 54 Republican majority.A dogged focus on the courts is not new for Republicans. They have made judicial appointments a priority in this country for a long time, Bagenstos told me. And on the other side, there has been much less attention until very recently. Through the Federalist Society and Judicial Crisis Network, conservatives have been able to drive attentionand moneyto key fights. When Trump nominated Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, for example, conservative groups outspent liberals nearly 20 to one. Judicial Crisis Network reportedly spent $17 million. There are a few similar Democratic organizations, including Demand Justice, but it was founded just six months ago. Run by Brian Fallon, Hillary Clintons former spokesman, it has not yet weighed in on state races. As opportunities at the federal level dwindle, however, that could change.Donald Trumps legacy at the federal level may be assured, but the state courts are another matter. The November elections will decide the fate of the House and Senate. But state court races may prove more eventful for Democrats.	Liberal
Brian Kemp currently holds two significant positions in Georgia politics, and he has been in the news for both of them. As the Republican nominee for governor, he is engaged in a fierce battle with Democrat Stacey Abrams, who, if she wins, would be the first female African-American governor in United States history. Polling indicates an extremely close race, one that could be decided by tens of thousands votes.Kemp is also Georgias current secretary of state, where one of his responsibilities is to oversee state elections. In that capacity, he has been engaged in a systematic campaign to restrict the number of Georgians allowed to cast ballots. In July 2017, Kemps office purged nearly 600,000 people, or 8 percent of the states registered voters, from the rolls; an estimated 107,000 of them were cut simply because they hadnt voted in recent elections. This year, Kemp has blocked the registration of 53,000 state residents, 70 percent of whom are African-American and therefore could be reasonably expected to vote for Abrams.Both moves were entirely legal. Georgia, plus at least eight other states, has a use it or lose law that allows it to cancel voter registrations if the person hasnt voted in recent elections. The state also has an exact match law, enacted last year, whereby a voter registration application must be identical to the information on file with Georgias Department of Driver Services or the Social Security Administration; if they dont match, or no such information is on file, then the registration is put on hold until the applicant can provide additional documents to prove their identity. Thats why more than 50,000 applicants are on hold. (They can still vote, with a photo ID, but no doubt their pending status will discourage many.)Georgia is only one of a number of states attempting to artificially suppress the (Democratic) vote, making voting rights a key issue in this electionnot to mention 2020, when Donald Trump seeks a second term. With critics insisting that many state laws restricting voter registration are unconstitutionally discriminatory, a continued series of court tests is inevitable. The Supreme Court thus may be the ultimate arbiters of who is allowed to vote and who is not. This is not the first time the court has been cast in such a role, and history does not beget optimism. Beginning in 1876, the Supreme Court presided over a three-decades long dismantling of what seemed to be a constitutional guarantee of the right to vote for African-Americans. The groundwork was laid in May of that year, when, in United States v. Reese, the court determined that the 15th Amendment, which states that the right to vote shall not be denied or abridgedon account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude, did not mean what it seemed to mean. As Justice Joseph Bradley wrote in a companion case, the amendment confers no right to vote. That is the exclusive prerogative of the states. It does confer a right not to be excluded from voting by reason of race, color or previous condition of servitude, and this is all the right that Congress can enforce. Bradley thus transferred the burden of proof from the government that has denied someones right to vote to the person whose right has been denied, a bar that would prove impossibly high. In 1880, in a pair of cases decided the same day, the court overturned a West Virginia law that, by statute, limited jury service to white men, but sustained a murder conviction by an all-white jury in a Virginia case because, although no African-Americans were chosen to serve on juries, there was no specific law that prevented it. Southern whites got the idea. As long as a law did not announce its intention to discriminate, it would pass judicial muster. When Justice Bradley, writing for an 8-1 majority in the Civil Rights Cases in 1883, declared the Civil Rights Act of 1875 unconstitutional and announced that black Americans would no longer be the special favorite of the laws, white supremacists in the South ramped up their efforts to keep black Americans from the ballot box, employing terror, fraud, and a series of ludicrous contrivances.South Carolina, for example, introduced a device called the eight-box ballot, equipped with eight separate slots, each designated for a specific candidate or party. To cast a valid vote, a person was required to match the ballot to the correct slot, but the manner in which the ballot and the box were labeled made it virtually impossible for someone not fully literate to do so. Whites were given assistance by agreeable poll workers, while blacks, most of whom could read only barely or not at all, were left to try to decipher the system on their own. Still, despite all efforts to stop them, African-Americans throughout the South continued to risk their lives and property in order to try to cast ballots. In 1890, armed with the roadmap supplied by the Supreme Court, Mississippi called a constitutional convention to end black voting once and for all. The new state constitution required that, in order to register, potential voters be Mississippi residents for two years, pay an annual poll tax, and pass an elaborate literacy test, which required an applicant to read and interpret a section of the state constitution chosen by a local official. The understanding and interpretation test was meant not only to prevent new registration by Mississippis extensive African-American population, but also to disqualify those already on the rolls. Whites were given simple clauses to read (and, again, were often assisted by poll workers) while African-Americans were given serpentine, incomprehensible clauses, which had been inserted into the document for that very purpose. When African-Americans were off the voting lists, they would be stricken from jury rolls as well. None of this was done in the shadows. James K. Vardaman, a racist Democrat who would go on to become governor and then a United States senator, was one of the new constitutions framers.There is no use to equivocate or lie about the matter, he said. Mississippis constitutional convention of 1890 was held for no other purpose than to eliminate the nigger from politics  let the world know it just as it is. Democratic Senator Theodore Bilbo, during his campaign for re-election in 1946, remarked, The poll tax wont keep em from voting. What keeps em from voting is section 244 of the constitution of 1890 that Senator George wrote. It says that for a man to register, he must be able to read and explain the constitution  and then Senator George wrote a constitution that damn few white men and no niggers at all can explain. As a result, according to Richard Klugers Simple Justice, almost 123,000 African American voters were defunct practically overnight.Every southern state eventually followed suit. In 1898, Louisiana convened a constitutional convention specifically to disenfranchise African Americansto establish, a committee chairman at the convention said, the supremacy of the white race. After its adoption, the number of registered black voters dropped from 130,344, to 5,320.Court tests of these new state constitutions went nowhere. In June 1896, Henry Williams was indicted for murder in Mississippi by an all-white grand jury. His attorney sued to quash the indictment based on the systematic exclusion of blacks from the voting rolls, specifically citing the 1890 Mississippi constitution. For most laymen looking at the Mississippi voting rolls, that some organized chicanery had been afoot would have been beyond question.Yet despite the fact that virtually none of the states 907,000 black residents were registered voters, and state officials had publicly announced their intention to disfranchise them, the court ruled that the burden was on Williams to prove, on a case-by-case basis, that registrars had rejected African-American applicants strictly because of race. Justice McKenna wrote that the Mississippi constitution did not on [its] face discriminate between the races, and it has not been shown that their actual administration was evil; only that evil was possible under them.The final blow to African-American voting rights was struck in 1903 in Giles v. Harris, when the court rejected a challenge by Jackson W. Giles, a Montgomery janitor who had voted for two decades, to the registration provisions of Alabamas 1901 constitution, which contained the usual poll tax, literacy requirement, and a grandfather clause (automatic registration if ones father or grandfather had been registered).In a perverse majority opinion, Oliver Wendell Holmes claimed that since Giles insisted the whole registration scheme of the Alabama Constitution is a fraud upon the Constitution of the United States, and asks us to declare it void, he was suing to to be registered as a party qualified under the void instrument. If the Court then ruled in Giless favor, Holmes concluded, it would become a party to the unlawful scheme by accepting it and adding another voter to its fraudulent lists. This is the very definition of reductio ad absurdum. By Holmess reasoning, any law that was discriminatory would be a fraud, and the court would become party to that fraud by protecting the plaintiffs right as a citizen.To avoid the problem, Holmes could have struck down the offending sections, and asserted that any state provision that, in word or application, violated the fundamental tenets of equal access to the ballot box would also be void. But he chose not to. Law professor Richard H. Pildes described Giles as the one key moment, one decisive turning point  in the bleak and unfamiliar saga  of the history of anti-democracy the United States. With the courts complicity, by 1906, more than 90 percent of African-American voters in the South had been disfranchised. Unable to influence politics through voting, and with no recourse in federal court, African-Americans were forced to stand by helplessly as the horrors of Jim Crow took root across the South.Poll taxes, literacy tests, and grandfather clauses are all illegal now, and so, as Brian Kemp and other Republicans have demonstrated, disfranchising black voters has needed to become ever so slightly more sophisticated. And certainly Kemp doesnt brag about it like Vardaman and Bilbo did. Still, both the tactics and the intent are frighteningly familiar.In deciding any voter suppression cases that come before it, the Supreme Court will have a stark choice. It can emulate decisions that upheld laws enacted solely and unapologetically to steal the right to vote from millions of African-Americans, or it can recognize the discriminatory and racist intent of these laws and strike them down. But just as the distant past doesnt beget optimism, neither does recent history. Back in 2013, the Supreme Court struck down the heart of the 1965 Voting Rights Act, ruling in Shelby County v. Holder that it was unconstitutional to require nine mostly Southern states to seek federal approval before changing their election laws. Our country has changed, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote for the 5-4 majority, which included swing Justice Anthony Kennedy. While any racial discrimination in voting is too much, Congress must ensure that the legislation it passes to remedy that problem speaks to current conditions.Five years later, the disastrous effects of that ruling have become apparent. Nearly 1,000 polling places across the country have been eliminated since Shelby. As the Pew Trusts reported last month, The trend continues: This year alone, 10 counties with large black populations in Georgia closed polling spots after a white elections consultant recommended they do so to save money. With Kennedys seat now occupied by the significantly more conservative Justice Brett Kavanaugh, its fair to doubt that this court would find such trends any more troublesome than those that ruled during one of the darkest periods in American history.	Liberal
President Donald Trump has stuck by Saudi Arabia through every twist of the saga of Jamal Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist and Virginia resident who was murdered in the Saudi embassy in Turkey earlier this month. He seemingly was the only person in Washington who believed the countrys initial denials of any involvement. When Saudi Arabia followed two weeks of lies with an admission and a bizarre defensethat Khashoggi had been killed after an accidental fistfightTrump accepted that, too. The president has made it clear that all that really matters is the preservation of a $110 billion arms deal reached last year, which he falsely claims will create a million jobs.I would prefer that we dont use, as retribution, canceling $110 billion worth of work, he said on Friday, later adding, You know, Id rather keep the million jobs, and Id rather find another solution.This has put Senate Republicans, particularly the self-appointed torch-bearers of the partys foreign policy, in a familiar bind. Bob Corker told CNNs Jake Tapper on Sunday that the Senate had invoked the Magnitsky Act, which could lead to sanctions being placed against Saudi Arabia. Ben Sasse told Tapper, You dont bring a bonesaw to an accidental fistfight, referring to the implement allegedly used to dismember Khashoggis corpse. Peter King went even further, telling ABCs George Stephanopoulos that he thinks the Saudis are the most immoral government weve ever had to deal with.But with the exception of the usual exceptions, like the war skeptic Rand Paul, the calls for action have been relatively muted. Some Senate Republicans have even acted as though theyre the real victims of Khashoggis murder. Lindsey Graham told reporters, Ive been the leading supporter along with John McCain of the U.S.-Saudi relationship. I feel completely betrayed. And Marco Rubio tweeted this unfortunate formulation:The #KhashoggiMurder was immoral. But it was also disrepectful to Trump & those of us who have supported the strategic alliance with the Saudis. Not only did they kill this man,they have left @potus & their congressional allies a terrible predicament & given Iran a free gift.Its becoming increasingly clear that, for all their outrage (or mere disappointment) at Saudi Arabia, Senate Republicans have no intention of doing anything about the Kingdoms murder of Khashoggi. And if that turns out to be true, it will be for same reason that the Senate has backed down time and again since the beginning of 2017. Over the past two years, Trump has systematically demolished one Republican principle after another. The partys foreign policy moralism would simply be the last one to die.Despite all the talk of possible rapprochement with Russia, this administrations most successful foreign policy reset has been with Saudi Arabia. When Trump took office, the long relationship between United States and Saudi Arabia, built on oil and a desire to contain Iran, was in its worst shape in decades. Engaged in proxy wars across the Middle East, the Saudis were opposed both the 2003 invasion of Iraq and the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, on the grounds that both empowered their enemy.But a visit from Trump in early 2017 ended in the $110 billion arms deal and, a couple of months later, the renunciation of the Iran deal. After Trumps visit, CNN reported the Saudis have begun to view Trump as a like-minded partnerone who put Iran on notice early in his presidency and has vowed to take a tougher line on the Saudi nemesis than his predecessor. His team also seems less likely to chide the kingdom on human rights issues, a perennial thorn in the US-Saudi relationship.Bin Salmans successful 2018 visit to the U.S.and cultivation of elites in American media, business, and, most of all, politicsallowed some skeptics to see what they wanted to see in Saudi Arabia. Promising to remake his countrys oil-based economy, Bin Salman presented himself as a reformer, ending his countrys ban on female drivers in 2017. This image glossed over the Kingdoms numerous human rights abuses both at home and abroad. The country is deeply engaged in two brutal wars in Syria and Yemen, which is in the midst of one of the worst famines in recent history thanks in large part to a Saudi blockade.Nevertheless, that famine and Saudi Arabias indiscriminate bombing (of a bus filled with 50 schoolchildren, among other horrors), were largely ignored until Khashoggis brazen murder. Now, Republicans are having to answer for their support of an authoritarian country, and to figure out how far they can go in sanctioning it without provoking the wrath of a president who would rather find another solution. If history is any guide, they wont go very far at all.Ever since Trump took office, Senate Republicans have made a big show of pushing back against Trump whenever his foreign policy deviated from the party establishment. But true action has been rare. After Trump accepted Vladimir Putins promise that Russia didnt interfere in the 2016 election, the outcry, including from Republicans, was instant, The New Yorkers Evan Osnos noted. More remarkable, though, was what didnt happen. No one resigned from the Cabinet. No Republican senators took concrete steps to restrain or contain or censure the President.And even when the Republican-led Senate has taken concrete steps, they have often been symbolic. In response to Trumps repeated criticism of NATO, the Senate passed a non-binding measure, 97-2, that expresses support for NATO, its mutual self-defense clause and calls on the administration to rush its whole-of-government strategy to counter Russias meddling in the U.S. and other democracies, DefenseNews reported in July. The Senate passed another non-binding resolution after Trump briefly flirted with the idea of handing over U.S. officials to Russia for questioning. Senate Republicans have also tried strongly worded committee reports and letters to the president.As long as Trump is the most popular Republican politician in America, and hes taking the arms deal off the table, its unclear what Senate Republicans could do to send a meaningful message to Bin Salman and Saudi Arabia. Its also unclear that they even want to. From senators Graham and Rubio, theres the sense that Saudi Arabias human rights abuses are better left ignoredthat what matters is that they are allies in the fight against Iran. Surely others agree with Trump that one mans murder does not warrant reneging on a $100 billion arms deal, which might explain why talk of blocking the deal appears not to have nearly the necessary support in the Senate.The New York Times reported on Saturday that Trump is betting he can stand by his Saudi allies and not suffer any significant damage with voters. Hes probably right, and some Senate Republicans probably are making the same wager. The midterms have revolved almost entirely around health care and immigration for weeks now, and thats not likely to change. Some on the right, notably evangelical leader Pat Robertson, are shrugging off Khashoggis murder, which only gives them further cover.If the Republican Senate ultimately does nothing meaningful to punish Saudi Arabia, it will represent the party establishments final capitulation to Trump. This was perhaps inevitable after Senator John McCains death in August. Though his own foreign policy views were deeply flawed, theres little doubt that McCain would have been the most morally righteous Republican voice in this moment, chastising Trump and calling on the Senate to punish Saudi Arabia. We are not the presidents subordinates, McCain said upon his triumphant return to the Senate last year, after being diagnosed with brain cancer. We are his equals. Its not clear that any of his surviving Republican colleagues feel the same way.	Liberal
Earlier this month, on the eve of a federal trial over Harvards use of race in admissions, the universitys president invoked the predominant defense of affirmative action: It enhances education for everybody. Harvard is deeply committed to bringing together a diverse campus community where students from all walks of life have the opportunity to learn with and from each other, Larry Bacow wrote.As a professor, I believe in that ideal as deeply as I believe in anything else. But since the 2016 elections, Ive come to question whether our elite universities believe it. Despite our rhetoric of diversity, we havent made a sustained, explicit effort to learn from a significant but typically ignored minority in our midst: Donald Trump supporters.Since 2016, Ive had several pro-Trump students come out to me in my office, with the door closed. One student reported that he had heard a slew of egregiously offensive statements by his peersincluding Trump voters are racists, idiots, or bothbut that he hadnt said anything in response, for fear of drawing ridicule and hostility. Please dont out me in class, he added.As Jon Shields and Joshua Dunn wrote in their 2016 book, Passing on the Right, younger conservative professors sometimes describe their plight in the language of gay rights. Like closeted homosexuals, they frequently disguise their identities and play along with the majorityat least until they get tenure, when theyre more likely to express their true selves.Conservative students dont have the same freedom. Like the Bryn Mawr student who was flamed on social media after she sought a ride to a 2016 Trump rallyso brutally that she withdrew from schoolmy Trump-supporting students are understandably afraid that theyll be vilified by their peers.Others feel maligned or threatened by their professors, almost all of whom are opposed to the president. So am I. Precisely because I dislike Trump, however, I think its my duty to talk withand learn frompeople who disagree with me.And thats where I disagree with many of my colleagues, who seem perfectly content to let pro-Trump students stew on the sidelines. Recently, at a faculty meeting at my school, we were asked what wed do if a Trump supporter said she didnt feel comfortable expressing her views in class on immigration.Why should she feel comfortable? one professor asked. The people we really need to worry about, another faculty member added, are immigrants and students of color, whose humanity is under assault every day.But insulating our classrooms from pro-Trump sentiment condescends to our minority students, all in the guise of protecting them. They already know that Trumps election unleashed ugly outbursts of bigotry cross the country. Trump himself has made dozens of highly offensive remarks about racial minorities, women, and the disabled. I understand why our minority students would be skeptical about people who voted for him.But its cynical and prejudicial to assume that every Trump voter is a racist or a misogynist. And, like every prejudice, its borne of ignorance: We dont talk to each other, so we dont know about each other either. Since the 1970s, as Bill Bishop detailed in his 2009 book The Big Sort, a declining fraction of Americans have reported conversations with people of a different political perspective. And people with more education are even less likely to engage in discussions across the political aisle.Thats the ultimate indictment of our universities, which should expose us to ideas and people outside of our personal experience. And it underscores the unmet vision of affirmative action, which was designed to help students learn from their differences and stimulate one another to re-examine even their most deeply held assumptions about themselves and their world, as former Princeton President William G. Bowen wrote decades ago.Bowens comment was cited approvingly by Justice Lewis G. Powell in Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, the landmark 1978 Supreme Court case upholding affirmative action. Drawing again from Bowen, Powell quoted a Princeton graduate who noted that students do not learn very much when they are surrounded only by the likes of themselves.Thats exactly right. And thats why I hope the federal district court in Boston upholds Harvards affirmative action system. But in the same spirit, I also hope well make a concerted effort to insure that all of our students can say what they think once they get here. That means encouraging our Trump supporters to speak up in class (without outing them against their will, of course). And it means insisting that the rest of us grant them a respectful hearing, no matter what we think of Trump.You cant support race-conscious admissions, as a way to widen the conversation, then restrict the conversation to people who agree with you. That makes a mockery of affirmative action, and of the university itself. Students need to hear a broad array of voices, so they can learn from their differences. And they wont learn very much if they are surrounded only by people like themselves.	Liberal
Seven thousand Central American migrants are traveling toward the United States. President Trump wants Mexico to stop them. I must, in the strongest of terms, ask Mexico to stop this onslaught. Trump tweeted on October 18, when the caravan of mainly Honduran, El Salvadoran, Guatemalan, and Nicaraguan migrants arrived at the Suchiate River on Mexicos southern border. Sadly, it looks like Mexicos Police and Military are unable to stop the Caravan heading to the Southern Border of the United States. Criminals and unknown Middle Easterners are mixed in, he tweeted on Monday.Trump has often suggested Mexico should help the U.S. halt Central American migration. In early September, the Trump administration announced that it would give $20 million for bus and airplane fare to deport 17,000 undocumented Central Americans from Mexico. (Mexico refused the funds.) Last week, Trump revived a request that Mexico agree to a law similar to the European Unions policy that migrants apply for asylum in the first safe country they arrive in: Central Americans bound for the United States would have to seek asylum in Mexico instead, although violence there is at an all-time high.  In reality, Mexico has been serving as the United States militarized buffer zone for some timein no small part due to concerted efforts by U.S. administrations. Since 2014, the United States has spent nearly $200 million expanding a deportation regime in Mexico that has expelled over 600,000 migrants, mostly to the Northern Triangle countriesGuatemala, Honduras, and El Salvadorbut also to South America, Africa, and Central Asia. The arrangement has allowed both the Trump and Obama administrations to outsource their dirtiest work onto Mexico, deploying U.S. immigration officials and U.S. equipment throughout the country to help carry it out. Mexicos transformation into a full-fledged deportation state began in the summer of 2014. A large number of unaccompanied Central American childrenover 68,000 in twelve monthsarrived on the U.S.-Mexico borderand the Obama administration moved swiftly with Mexicos President Enrique Pea Nieto to approve a $100 million plan, known as the Programa Frontera Sur, that would protect the safety and rights of Central American migrants and secure Mexicos southern border with Guatemala. Both governments deny that the U.S. leaned on Mexico to crack down, said Adam Isaacson, a Mexico security expert at the Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA), but in our view, its completely what happened.The reality of Programa Frontera Sur differed strikingly from its stated mission of protecting migrants. Programa Frontera Sur paid for advanced border control machinerydrones and security cameras, fences and floodlights, alarm systems and motion detectorsand the expansion of a controversial national immigration service known as Grupos Beta. The organization is tasked with providing water, first aid, and directions to migrants. But Grupos Beta workerswho stand out against the wilderness in neon orange t-shirtshave been known to extort cash from migrants and report them to immigration officials who detain and deport them. Cargo trains, known as the Beast, that Central American migrants rode atop on their journey north were sped up so that migrants could no longer jump onboard, forcing them to forge routes through the forests of Chiapas and Oaxacawhere they are frequently attacked and robbed. Valeria Luiselli, a celebrated Mexican writer, described Programa Frontera Sur as an augmented-reality video game, where the player who hunts down the most migrants wins.With Programa Frontera Sur, the United States extended its reach deep into Mexicos interior. U.S. Border Patrol agents were dispatched to train immigration agents throughout Mexicos 58 detention centers. In April, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security expanded an $88 million program for biometric equipment at Mexicos southern border checkpoints that shares the fingerprints, iris scans, and descriptions of scars and tattoos with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Another $75 million from the United States went towards building communications towers along the remote Guatemala border. The entire country of Mexico is now a border, one Mexican analyst declared.By one measure, Programa Frontera Sur achieved its intended outcome. Since 2014, Mexico has deported more Central Americans each year than the United Statesnearly 180,000 in 2015. (For comparison, the top-deporting country in the EU, Greece, deported only around 105,000 migrants in 2015, at the height of Europes migrant crisis.) Now the United States seems to be building on the model. Throughout 2018, reports surfaced of Mexican immigration agents in the northern Mexican border cities of Tijuana and Nogales receiving orders from U.S. Border Patrol to detain and deport Central American migrants, despite their legal right to apply for asylum in the United States. Its a collaborative program that were doing with the Americans, a Mexican immigration official told a Texas immigration lawyer in July.But the militarization hasnt changed the underlying dynamics driving immigration: El Salvador and Honduras rank as the second and fourth most violent countries in the world, respectively, and Guatemala trails not far behind. As a result, immigration from the so-called Northern Triangle countries has risen even as the number of Mexicans immigrating to the U.S. has declined. Maureen Meyer, a Mexico expert at WOLA, estimates that 400,000 Central Americans pass through Mexico in any given year. Parents continue to send their children north because the dangers of staying outweigh those of leaving.Mexico, too, wants Central American immigrants out. A 2014 study found that many Mexicans discriminate against Central Americans, who live in Mexicos most dangerous neighborhoods and work low-wage jobs that Mexicans avoid. Migrant shelter workers told WOLA in one survey that they have extracted pellets out of migrants legs after Mexican immigration agents shot at them with pellet guns. The same report cited migrant testimonies that immigration agents also use  electric shock devices, despite laws prohibiting the use of all weapons. The Mexican media often frames Central Americans as gangsters, even though only eight of the 21,000 migrants scanned last year with biometric equipment were identified as gang members. These factors create a harrowing ordeal for those fleeing violence in their home countries. Women are particularly vulnerable. An estimated eight in 10 migrant women and girls are raped while traveling through Mexico. Many reportedly bring birth control as a precaution.Mexico has repeatedly and adamantly refused to pay a cent for Trumps wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. But in many ways, Mexico has long been paying for a wallon its southern border, instead. Since 2014, a vast and sophisticated deportation apparatus has emerged in Mexico that has traumatized and harmed hundreds of thousands of people. Although U.S. assistance only accounts for about 2 percent of Mexicos $10 billion annual defense budget, much of the new infrastructure would not exist if it werent for the United States persistently nudging Mexico to crack down. There are parallels here with how rich Western European countries like Germany and France have relied on poorer countries in southeastern Europe and North Africa to halt the flow of migrants coming from Syria, Afghanistan, Mali, and Guinea.On October 3, President Trump called Mexicos president-elect, the charismatic leftist Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador, to discuss among other things how to halt Central American migration. Lpez Obrador said he planned to plant two and a half million acres of timber and fruit trees in southern Mexico and build a high-speed Maya tourist train linking the temples of Palenque to the pyramids of the Yucatan: Creating jobs for Central American migrants will keep them from the United States, Lpez Obrador believes. Great phone call, Trump tweeted approvingly afterwards.Lpez Obrador, who will succeed the deeply unpopular Pea Nieto on December 1, could present a threat to Trumps deportation agenda. A pacifist and anti-imperialist nationalist, Lpez Obrador has repeatedly expressed disdain for Programa Frontera Surand promised to focus on addressing the root causes of Central American migration.We are not going to chase migrants. We are not going to criminalize them, Alejandro Encinas, the incoming undersecretary of immigration, recently told The Washington Post. Lpez Obradors incoming cabinet has said that it would not cooperate with U.S. requests for the policy that would require Central Americans to seek asylum in Mexico rather than the United States.Pressing for jobs, not pellet guns, departs radically from prior approaches. Lpez Obradors immigration agenda remains vague, and many doubt that he will entirely dismantle Programa Frontera Sur or open the southern border to Central American migrants. Come December, both countries will find out how serious the new Mexican president is.	Liberal
In the evening of June 11, a few hundred people gathered across the street from the St. Regis Hotel in Singapore. Many were holding up cameras. Some were posing with selfie sticks. Others, fresh-faced and groomed despite the sweltering heat, positioned themselves with a view of the hotel behind them, facing camera crews. These were TV reporters, and I could hear one rehearsing I am reporting live from.... in Korean. Someone asked me to move a bit because they needed a place for the reporters to do their stand-ups. They would be going live soon, broadcasting directly from here, though here was a glass-covered skyscraper, one of the most luxurious hotels in Singapore.About 20 motorcycles were parked in a line in front of the entrance, suggesting the presence of bodyguards for a VIP, who in this case would be Kim Jong-un, the supreme leader of the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, a global political celebrity perhaps second only to Donald Trump, who was also in town, for a summit, the first of its kind between the two leaders. The media had staked out promising spots such as the St. Regis, like paparazzi angling for a rare shot, on the chance that Kim, who was staying there, would show up and do something noteworthy.More than 3,000 reporters had flown in from around the world to cover the U.S.North Korea summit, so many journalists that at times we were literally stumbling over one another. Most of us were settled in the media center in the cavernous three-story F1 Pit Building, where we watched events unfold from TV screens that hung from the ceiling. We saw Kim Jong-un arrive, we saw Trump arrive. We saw the two men shake hands, we saw them sign a vaguely worded document that shared much in common with similarly vague agreements between the two governments in 1994 and 2007, both of which unraveled. As if to make up for the lack of any real news, Trump gave an hourlong press conference, during which he released a Hollywood-trailer-style video featuring himself and Kim Jong-un looking heroic, with a slogan: Two men, two leaders, one destiny.There had been much confusion in the lead-up to the summit, questions about its structure and goals, and doubt as to whether it would take place at all. Trump canceled the whole thing in late May, only to declare it back on eight days later. Despite the confusion, everyone seemed to agree that something big was afoot, an international something that perhaps might even result in a Nobel Peace Prize for the U.S. president; after the first inter-Korean meeting in 2000, South Korean President Kim Dae-jung took one home.During a cabinet meeting in late April, Moon Jae-in, South Koreas current president, half-casually remarked, Its President Trump who should receive the Nobel Prize. We only need to take peace. This comment, which had everything to do with Moons own efforts to bring peace to the Korean Peninsula and very little to do with Donald Trump, was largely misinterpreted by the foreign media as an endorsement of the American president for the prize, and by extension, the belligerent brinksmanship that may or may not have brought North Koreas Kim to the negotiating table.The leader of the liberal Democratic Party, Moon had only taken office in May 2017, after the events of the 45-day Candlelight Revolution the year before, during which millions of South Koreans had attended protests against the corruption of conservative President Park Geun-hye. In December 2016, Park was impeached, and she was removed from office three months later. She is currently serving a 33-year prison sentence for corruption, illegal use of state funds, and violating election laws; Moon became president after an emergency election.Moon was born in a war refugee camp in 1953 to parents who had fled the northern province of Hamgyong. He was jailed twice as a student for participating in protests against the dictatorships of president Park Chung-hee (father of Park Guen-hye), who staged a military coup in 1961 and ruled South Korea until his assassination in 1979, and Chun Doo-hwan, who took over in 1980. After his release from prison, Moon founded a human rights law firm with Roh Moo-hyun, who also went on to become president, in 2003. In 2004, while serving as a presidential secretary, Moon accompanied his mother to reunite with her sister at North Koreas Mount Geumgang resort, as a part of Rohs Sunshine Policy of engagement with the North. (The Sunshine Policy was an economic and intergovernmental policy, unilaterally initiated by South Korea in 1998; it was formally abandoned and declared a failure by the South Korean Ministry of Unification in 2010, after conservative Lee Myung-bak came to power.) During his presidential campaign, Moon vowed that if elected, his first tour out of the country would not be to the United States, as was traditional, but to North Korea. (His first trip, in June 2017, ended up being to Washington, D.C.) He had already met with Kim Jong-un twice before Trumps summit in Singapore, in April and May.I grew bored waiting for Kim to appear that night, and finally, around 9 p.m., after watching some of the TV folks, I returned to the media center to see if there was any news I might have missed. I wasnt hopeful. I was convinced that little progress toward peace on the Korean Peninsula would be made in Singapore by Trump and Kim. But that didnt mean there would be no progress.We do not wish for North Koreas collapse, we will not pursue reunification by absorption in any form, nor will we pursue artificial reunification, Moon had said during a July 2017 speech.Without stating it directly, Moon had declared a new policy with regard to North Korea, one that differed significantly from the Sunshine Policy, which had a stated purpose of reuniting families and the two countries. Moon had also renounced the direction of conservative South Korean governments, which had long refused to acknowledge North Korea as a sovereign nationthe only reunification they would accept was absorption. (Their favored model was that of reunified Germany, in which East was swallowed by West.) Conservatives had for years argued that the only means to achieve that outcome was by pressuring North Korea economically until it collapsed.Yet those conservative governments were gone, and Moon and the liberals held sway. So, the real shift in policy advanced by Moon related less to regime change in the North and more to a peace process that would allow Kim Jong-un to stay in power. Moons vision of peace was really one of containment, ensuring that North Korea and Kim Jong-un could no longer threaten the South.Peace without reunification is a very different thing than what had come before. Yet it was an idea that seemed to have found its moment in South Korea, which had been long split along reunion or confrontation lines. Virtually no one on the left in South Korea to whom I have spoken in recent years has expressed any real desire for reunification, though few people are willing to admit it publicly. Younger people generally dismiss reunification outright. Older South Koreans will only say that reunification should happen, and yet inevitably add in due time or at some point in the future.So, lost in the chaos that Trump had created, and the vagaries of the summit and its outcome, was a new and frankly bold change in the kind of treatment North Korea could expect from one of the two nations with which it is still formally at war. In that light, my trip to Singapore was something of a farceat one point so little was going on that reporters began interviewing other reporters so that theyd have something to report. It seemed to me that the real talks were not taking place between Kim Jong-un and Trump at all, but between Moon and the people of South Korea.Such is how I found myself, a few weeks before Singapore, standing in line outside a caf bar called Bunker 1 in the business district of central Seouls Chungjeong-ro neighborhood. Above the entrance hung a large poster for That Day, The Sea, a smash hit documentary about the 2014 sinking of the Sewol ferry, which killed 304 passengers, most of them high school students. The film was produced by 49-year-old Kim Ou-joon, a well-known publisher, podcast host, and media personality. Bunker 1 serves as headquarters for Ddanzi Ilbo, a digital media company that Kim founded in 1998.With his 80s glam-rockers teased hair, mustache, and goatee, Kim looked more like an artist than a media powerhouse. He is the creator and former host of one of the worlds most downloaded political podcasts, Naneun Ggomsudah, which roughly translates as I Am a Petty-Minded Creep. The title is a sarcastic reference to conservative President Lee Myung-bak, who served from 2008 to 2013. Lee, like the conservative successor Moon replaced, was indicted on multiple corruption charges. In October, the 76-year-old former president was convicted and sentenced to 15 years in prison.I had come to Bunker 1 to watch the live broadcast of Kims newest podcast, Dasvuida. (Translation: I Will Show You DAS, a play on the iconic Star Wars villain Darth Vader, and DAS, an auto-parts company embroiled in a federal investigation, whose actual ownership is murky, but which allegedly is controlled by Lee Myung-bak.) By 6:30 p.m., the bar was packed with several hundred people. The crowd had gathered for Kim and his cohost, another extremely popular media figure, 45-year-old Choo Chin-woo, South Koreas foremost investigative journalist. When the two finally appeared, everyone cheered loudly, pressed toward the bars stage, and beseeched the two journalists to pose with them for selfies.To understand the influence that Kim Ou-joon has in South Korea, its important to put his podcast in context. Under Lee Myung-bak, the heads of the major broadcast and news organizations were replaced by close associates of the president and corporate bureaucrats with explicitly pro-government stances, essentially turning the mainstream press into a propaganda machine. In 2012, thousands of journalists from MBC, KBS, YTN, and other major media outlets went on strike in protest. Many would eventually resign or were transferred to lesser roles where they were unable to report. It was also around this time that the government took a hand in setting up new, pro-government cable TV stations called jonghap pyunsung. Naneun Ggomsudah offered a crucial alternative for the public, exposing the corruption of their political, religious, and economic leaders. In 2012, it was shuttered during a federal investigation into charges of defaming political figures.Lost in the chaos that Trump and Kim had created, and the vagaries of the summit and its outcome, was a bold change in what peace with North Korea might look like. Such a breathless reception for two middle-aged media figures might seem odd to an American audience. But Choos expos of Lee Myung-baks financial corruption badly damaged his presidency, and his investigation of Park Geun-hye and her unofficial adviser Choi Soon-shil contributed to Parks impeachment and the emergency election that brought Moon to power. In a way, these two journalists were nearly as responsible for Moons approach to peace as Moon himself.The nights program was supposed to focus on the upcoming National Assembly election, but North Korea kept coming up. Among Kim and Choos guests that night was Lee Jae-jung, a former unification minister during the Roh Moo-hyun administration. Lee had been a strong proponent of the Sunshine Policy and was now running for reelection as superintendent of education of Gyeonggi province. Strangely, many of his remarks were in praise of Kim Jong-un: Kim Jong-un seems totally different from his father, whom I did meet; Look how he was this time. When our envoy went, he and his wife even walked our envoy out to the parking lot.A North Korean defector-turned-journalist named Kang Mi-jin also commended North Korea. Giant root vegetables burst from the ground near Mount Baekdu in the North, she said. When she first fled, she could not believe people ate such small vegetables as they did in the South. Back homea country in which a late 1990s famine claimed as many as three million livespeople threw out such paltry specimens. The malgup mushroom, a South Korean delicacy, was so unimpressive that she recently asked her mother, who also defected, Mom, didnt we use these as kindling to make fire? It was hard to imagine why she would have left such a land of plenty, but the audience seemed to accept her skewed logic; they broke into applause.When the subject came up of who should receive credit for Singapore and whatever agreement emerged from it, Kim Ou-joon put it simply: Who cares if Trumps not fit to be the U.S. president? Thats the American peoples business. For us, without Trump, the summit wouldnt be possible.Singapore wasnt what Kim Ou-joon wanted to discuss when I returned to Bunker 1 a few days later. He was sitting at one of the outdoor tables, his cell phone in one hand and a cigarette in the other. He was far more interested in a different summit: the April 27 meeting between Moon Jae-in and Kim Jong-un, at the military demarcation line, or DMZ, that has separated the countries since 1953. This, he said, was far more important than Singapore. Kim Jong-un was the first North Korean leader to step over the line to the South, and the occasion aired on live TV. Kim was described as mannerly and courteous and a man of self-assurance. According to Kim Ou-joon, In just a matter of seconds, the South Korean public perception went from Kim the madman to a well-brought-up man from a decent family.These were things, he said, that Koreans notice but Americans would not have picked up on. I agreed with him. There are nuances you catch only if you are from within a culture, but I am Korean, and I didnt see what he was talking about. Kim Jong-un wasnt from a decent family but a homicidal one, and no gentle mannerisms he put on for TV would change that fact. Besides, what difference did it make? Who cared if he seemed nice? Did that change his treatment of his own people, or the threat of his nuclear weapons program? He insisted it mattered.From that moment on, we no longer saw him as an enemy, Kim Ou-joon explained. There was a fundamental shift among South Koreans. It wasnt just hope for peace. It went from distrust to trust. Because we saw it with our own eyes, its difficult for that perception to changethat was the key. In one moment, Kim Jong-uns approval ratings jumped from 20 percent to nearly 80 percent.When I asked about Kim Jong-uns 2013 execution of his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, and the murder of his brother, Kim Jong-nam, who in February 2017 was assassinated at Kuala Lumpur International Airport when two hired killers smeared a lethal nerve agent called VX on his face, he said that every country had its own rules for establishing political order by eliminating a rival. Its not right to judge it according to the American way.This was his response to all my questions about human rights: North Korea had its own ways, its own logic; the only ones bringing up human rights at this juncture were South Koreas extreme conservatives, because it fit with their agenda to demonize North Korea. Besides, the United States had its own ethical and moral shortcomings with which to reckon. Imagine if other countries brought up the white American policemens murder of black people, or of its gun violence, every time there were to be political negotiations?Every country had its rules for establishing political order by eliminating a rival, Kim Ou-joon said. Its not right to judge North Korea according to the American way. This, he said, was why U.S. foreign policy on North Korea always failed. In Americas perception, its always Good versus Evil, them being right and others wrong. He mentioned Trumps cancellation of the summit. Since it was Trump who canceled, Americans saw it as a deal making. If North Korea had done it, then it would have been desperate strategy. He drew on his cigarette when he said this, and seemed emotional. America simply wont acknowledge that other countries have agency.This opinion was seconded by Choo Chin-woo, whom I met at his office that same week. He had a lean profile and angular features, and exuded the cool, chic haughtiness of a K-pop star. There really isnt much we as South Koreans can do, he said. America has always had the upper hand. Without the will of the American president, this moment with North Korea simply could not happen. Even if we, North Korea and South Korea, want to talk with each other, it cannot happen without American approval. Thus the tragedy of a small nation.Choo said that the dynamics of modern Korean history were set by the division between North and South, which he called the seed of corruption and injustice. The elites in both Koreas, as well as the South Korean mainstream media, had long benefited from the split. Theyve lived off it, blocking reconciliation between the Koreas. The conservatives, and the surrounding countries, tooChina, Japan, Russia, and especially the United States, their Defense Department, their arms dealer, those who made money off it. He said, however, that he was the wrong person to ask questions about what kind of leaders Trump or Kim Jong-un were in their own countries. His main interest was exposing corruption within South Korea.I encountered this attitude among many South Korean liberals. It is a sort of South Korea First mindset, which initially reminded me of Trump and his MAGA message. But the left and right in South Korea are not the same as Americas liberals and conservatives. Here, the presiding issue remains the divided Korea. Choo insisted that if Park Geun-hyes conservative administration had still been in power, the Singapore summit would never have been possible. The same went for the levels of support for Moon in South Korea: It was an essential factor in getting Trump and Kim to Singapore.That support was mobilized into action after the Sewol ferry disaster. It was later revealed that the sinking, and the botched rescue efforts, were the result of corruption involving the ferry owners, the insurance companies, and the Coast Guard and Navy. In July, a South Korean court ruled that the government was liable. It was also not lost on South Koreans that many of the dead were teenagers from low-income families in Ansan, an industrial city in Gyeonggi province; some questioned if the government would have acted quicker had the kids come from elite Seoul schools. The realization that this was not just an unfortunate accident struck a deep emotional chord in South Koreans, comparable to what Americans felt after Hurricane Katrina. It exposed a pervasive rottenness under the surface of the countrys infrastructure and governance.Information often comes from data, which in South Korea has inevitably been manipulated by the conservative media, said Lee Sang-ho, a reporter best known for the Samsung X-File, an investigation that exposed the giant companys use of bribes to influence the 1997 presidential election. With Sewol, though, all that changed. The nation watched in horror as their children died, and they saw that their government did nothing to rescue them even when they could have. The president went missing during the immediate hours after the disaster without offering any explanation, and the mainstream conservative media misreported a supposedly successful rescue mission, while the independent media broadcast live from the scene. Because people saw the truth with their own eyes, and because the information was incontrovertible, it gave power to the people who provided it.People would not be fooled, Lee said to me at the screening of his latest film, The Blacklist, a sequel to the earlier documentary hed done about the Sewol disaster. Lee said that conservative leaders had always used the mainstream media to exploit the division between North and South, in order to accrue personal power and wealth. The specter of national security, disseminated through the press, would stifle calls for reform in unrelated sectors of the government. No reform, from education to labor laws, was possible, because the reformers challenging the establishment would be reframed, maligned, and banished as communists, he added.Junguk Gyojikwon Nodong Johap, the Korean Teachers and Education Workers Union, was a good example, he said. Some of its members had been barred from teaching because they were considered anti-government and pro-North Korea. In 2013, the Park Geun-hye administration banned the union altogether, stripping it of government subsidies and the right to collectively bargain. Unless the fundamental perception of North Korea as the enemy is eradicated, no reform is possible,  Lee said.He pointed to the positive coverage North Korea received during Februarys Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. Kim Jong-uns sister, Kim Yo-jong, attended as a special envoy, and she sat next to Moon in the presidential box at a North Korean concert in Seoul, which was broadcast live on TV. That was an opening act for this friendly image-building, Lee said. That event was followed by the inter-Korean summit, which aired, again, live on TV, further improving the image of Kim Jong-un. Singapore would only be another, relatively minor, step in this process, which would be followed by Moons eventual visit to Pyongyang, promised the day after he took office. (Moon traveled to North Korea on September 18; during the visit, Kim said he would reciprocate with his own visit to the South.) Outsiders forget that the Moon administration is not a normal one, Lee said, regarding the urgency with which Moon has pursued his agenda with the North. It was born out of a revolution, which then has to fulfill peoples expectation, which runs very high.Kim Yeon-chul, the head of the Korea Institute for National Unification, a government-funded think tank in Seoul, told me that when Moon was part of the Roh Moo-hyun government, the official, liberal reunification strategy was one that had existed since 1989, and was mapped out in three steps: first, the reconciliation and cooperation phase, during which South Korea would build a peaceful relationship with North Korea; next, the two Koreas would form a transitional commonwealth, with two governments under one entity, perhaps along the lines of Chinas relationship to Hong Kong; and finally, a long-term process that would result in unification as a single state.This was no longer Moons definition of reunification. His government now appeared to view the commonwealth not as a transition but an end state. And to achieve that, the United States was necessary. Nuclear North Korea is a direct result of a long-lasting Cold War, Kim Yeon-chul said. America approaches the problem solely as one of weapons denuclearizationbut in South Korea, we approach this from the vantage point of a relationship. If the relationship changes for the better, then the weapon will no longer be useful.Though conservatives power in government was much diminished, I remained curious to understand what they thought of Moons shift in policy toward the North. So, in late May, I accompanied Ha Tae-kyung, a National Assembly member representing the city of Busan for the center-right Righteous Future Party, to a campaign event for the upcoming local elections on the rooftop of a shopping mall on the edge of Seoul. The candidate was 32-year-old Harvard graduate Lee Jun-seok, nicknamed Park Geun-hyes kid because he was a protg of the impeached president.As I climbed the steps to the roof, I could hear an announcer saying the words Harvard and Kim Jong-un. The Harvard pitch was no surpriseAmerican educational credentials go a long way in South Korea, even now. But the mention of Kim Jong-un was baffling. The speaker said that Lee Jun-seok was only a year younger than Kim Jong-un, implying that their proximity in age suggested shared leadership traits.The young candidate was rosy-cheeked, with smiling eyes, like the young northern leader, though a bit less chubby. But the logic of positively comparing a conservative candidate to South Koreas murderous archenemy eluded me. Apparently the conservatives had a few things in common with Moon after all. I watched Ha busily work the room, shaking hands with the few hundred constituents who had gathered there. With Moons Democratic Party in control of the government, it was unlikely the young candidate would win his election.Ha Tae-kyung is a rare politician in the South who has switched his political allegiance from left to right. Born in 1968, the same year as both Kim Ou-joon and Lee Sang-ho, he belongs to the 486 Generationborn in the 1960s, still in his forties, attended college in the turbulent 1980s. As a physics major at Seoul National University, he was one of the leading democracy activists in Junguk Daehaksaeng Daepyoja Hyupeuhwae (commonly known by its acronym, JunDaeHyup), the National College Student Leader Association, perhaps the most famous youth resistance group, known for its anti-government protests, which resulted in the death and torture of some members, and its inflammatory pro-North Korean activities.One of its members, a South Korean college student named Lim Su-kyung, traveled to Pyongyang in 1989, in violation of a national security law prohibiting visits to the North. Like a South Korean Hanoi Jane, she publicly praised the Great Leader, Kim Il-sung, sparking a controversy in the South. (The North Korean government dubbed her the Flower of Unification.) When she returned home, she was sentenced to five years in prison. Im Jong-seok, one of JunDaeHyups leaders, served three and a half years for his role in arranging the trip. Ha was also arrested, in 1991, and charged with breaking a national security law. He served two years in prison.Many former JunDaeHyup members later took on leadership roles in the Democratic PartyLim Su-kyung was the partys representative to the National Assembly until 2015and some now hold senior positions in the Moon administration. Im Jong-seok is chief presidential secretary to Moon and was seated next to him during the inter-Korean summit in April.After the campaign event, I waited with Ha for his train to Busan, and he told me about his political evolution. Soon after being released from prison, he had traveled to the North Korean border to do aid work. It was there that he met North Korean defectors and learned about the brutal realities in the North. (Later that day, Ha asked to take a selfie with me. He said he was impressed by a book I had written about living undercover in North Korea for six months, which he called a suicide mission.)South Koreas conservatives like to accuse some far-left members of Moons administration of hewing to a belief system known as jusapa, an acronym for a Korean term that translates as the faction of the Juche ideology. Juche is the political philosophy of Kim Il-sung, the founder of North Korea, and means self-reliance. It is known for its rather hyperbolic assertions of ideological self-importance, but it also holds appeal for the far-left in South Korea in its synthesis of Marxist-Leninist and Korean culture. This is an attractive concept for a country that has historically been either colonized or suppressed by stronger nations such as Japan, China, and the United States.For the student leaders of the 486 Generation, to resist the South Korean dictatorship meant to politically and intellectually oppose the United States, which propped the dictatorship up, and to believe in a fictionally benign image of the Northakin to the 1930s American socialists who made excuses for Stalin until they learned the truth about the Soviet Union. The liberals in South Korea have more in common with North Korea, in its ethno-nationalism and its socialist ideals, than with the American democracy that arose in South Korea, Ha said. The levels of distrust between left and right are rooted in years-old, still-unresolved antipathies.Most of all, conservatives do not trust Moon, and I spoke to many of them, some with more extreme views, during my time in Seoul. For them, Moons push for peaceful coexistence between the two Koreas as two sovereign nations is not only false, but untenable. Its all a show, a fancy peace show! Why would Kim Jong-un change? Why would he give up his power? Sing peace all you want, would peace come? said Jeong Kyu-jae, a 61-year-old former columnist at the Korea Economic Daily who is now a broadcaster, podcaster, and pundit famous for his conservative views.He pointed to earlier failed engagement efforts, most notably the opening in 2004 of the Kaesong industrial zone in North Korea. More than 100 South Korean companies invested in Kaesong during the Sunshine Policy, employing some 54,000 North Korean workers. South Korean liberals cite the project, which closed in 2016, as an example of a relatively successful effort to nudge North Korea toward a market economy. Jeong dismissed it as a slave factorywith workers who had no freedom to negotiate a labor contract, for either wages or working conditionsused to bolster the North Korean regime. Kaesong was never a road to a market economy for the North, but a system for legitimizing slave labor.Its all a show, a fancy peace show! Jung Kyu-jae said of Moons dtente plans with the North. Why would Kim Jong-un change? Why would he give up his power? Shaking his head, he asked me, What do you think the South Korean left hates the most? The answer, he said, was chaebol, the large, family-run business conglomerates that have traditionally dominated the South Korean economy. He cited the nut rage incident, in which Korean Air heiress Cho Hyun-ah made international news in 2014 when she angrily delayed a flight for 20 minutes because she was not properly served nuts (on a plate, apparently). The left-wing media gleefully skewered the incident as gapjil (bossy bullying) gone amok. But who do you think is the biggest chaebol on the Korean Peninsula? He paused. Its Kim Jong-un! The third-generation heir and mass murderer all those on the left are embracing right now. Remember Hitler? All those young Germans were fanatic about him too.A few weeks later, as if to confirm this thought, South Koreas Prime Minister Lee Nak-yeon stepped off South Koreas Air Force One in Kenya and praised Kim Jong-un as a leader who thinks of the livelihoods of people as being more important than other things.Nam Si-uk, an 80-year-old former columnist at the conservative Dong-A Ilbo newspaper (and author of Korean Conservatism Studies and Korean Progressives Studies), explained to me why conservatives view Moons positions as a threat. For example, the Korean commonwealth ideal, which until recently Moon supported, wouldnt be like China and Hong Kong. A better comparison was the partition of Vietnam after the fall of the French colonialists in 1954, only on a nuclear-armed peninsula. If it were a true commonwealth, the South would have nothing to lose, since it has twice the population of the North, Nam said. But, what conservatives fear is that the North will try to infiltrate and convert the South ideologically. Meanwhile, we would lose the alliances that could help us if a war were to break out. And such a war would be considered a civil war, much like Vietnam.Moons position, with two independent Koreas, could only be achieved if South Korea and the United States promised to secure the Kim Jong-un regime. An impossibility, said Nam. How could anyone secure their regime? The more you pump them up economically, the more the people there will want freedom, and that freedom directly threatens the survival of the regime. Remember, Kim Jong-uns regime isnt an elected government but a monarchy dictatorship. After a pause, Nam said definitively, Moons vision is a fantasy.Most of all, Nam claimed that key members of Moons government still actually want total reunification, because they are fundamental ethno-nationalists and believe in one Korea. Its the young people, the students, who dont want reunification, because they dont want to give money to North Korea. But the core left does. What conservatives fear, then, is the liberal vision of reunification, made on North Koreas terms, which would bring South Korea closer to China and Russia, and ultimately break up South Koreas alliance with the United States. In the end, the new battle between left and right was an old one: Soviet-style socialism versus American democracy. Never mind that the Soviet Union was no more, North Korea was isolated, and China, its sole partner, wasnt exactly a communist paradise. Conservatives, trapped in their never-ending cycles of political recrimination, could only see Moons wish to make peace for South Korea as a feint to get rid of the United States.Alliance is a word that Moon Chung-in, special policy adviser to President Moon, doesnt like. I met him in his office in a government building around the corner from the Blue House, South Koreas presidential residence. In May, he said, he had told a reporter from The Atlantic that alliances are a very unnatural state in international relations, and he added, Ideally speaking, a country without alliances can be said to be more secure and stable. Alliances, he explained, assume a common enemy, a common threat. If the common threat is gone, countries have two choices: either create a new threat, or adjust your alliances. Moon Chung-in did concede, however, that, in the short to medium term, our alliances with the United States should be maintained.The interview outraged South Korean conservatives, who interpreted his remarks as the Moon administration declaring its intention to forsake its ties with the United States. An article in The Chosun Ilbo, the countrys leading conservative daily, blasted the comment with a headline, Moon Chung-in, Again ... In the Long Run, Best Is to Get Rid of Korea-U.S. Alliance. In 2017, when Moon Chung-in made a similar statement, Hong Jun-pyo, a former presidential candidate from Liberty Korea, the countrys biggest right-wing party, who is known as Hong Trump for his aggressive style, said, Such a vulgar comment is not only shocking but also gives us the creeps, and he suggested that Moon Chung-in move to North Korea. Ahn Cheol-soo, another former presidential candidate, and a leading figure in the Righteous Future Party, demanded Moon Chung-in be fired.Moon Chung-in had also run into trouble a few months earlier during a speech in Washington, D.C., when he said that it would be difficult to justify the presence of U.S. troops in South Korea if there was ever a peace treaty with the North, a position he repeated in an April article he wrote for Foreign Affairs. Many conservatives criticized me for saying that, Moon Chung-in told me. But my main concern was that there will be a debate in the United States about whether, and how, its forces might withdraw, and that South Koreas interests needed to be respected. Henry Kissinger, the former U.S. secretary of state, agreed with him, he said. He told me himself that a debate about U.S. troops will be unavoidable and inevitable. But you see the reaction in South Korea! Moon Chung-in said, shaking his head. If the removal of troops becomes an issue, that will stand in the way of any peacemaking process. The reason for that is because of internal political resistance, and thats between conservatives and liberals.The South Korean conservatives, he told me, still considered the only authentic peace to be unification by absorption, one in which North Korea surrendered or collapsed. No such thing is possible, Moon Chung-in said. The difficult task in all this, he added, is how to persuade North Korea to make peace with South Korea while maintaining the alliance with America and keeping the U.S. troops in South Korea. To achieve that, North Korea could not be demonized. President Moons approach to dtente was a pragmatic one, he claimed, not the fruitless dream that conservatives condemned it as.With that in mind, South Koreas interest in the Singapore summit, then, had little to do with a comprehensive deal to resolve Moon Jae-ins difficult task. Any agreement would effectively be meaningless, since neither Trump nor Kim could be trusted. What Moon Jae-in wanted was for Donald Trump to avoid damaging the progress hed made at the DMZ, along with a little help promoting support for peace with the North in South Korea. Thats why Moon Jae-in said Trump could have his Nobel Peace Prizeas a pat on the back! And if Kim stopped violating his subjects human rights, great, because it made it easier for Moon to sell peace to his citizens. But it wasnt that important. (There is still no evidence that North Korea has suspended its nuclear weapons program, and in August, Trump canceled Secretary of State Mike Pompeos planned visit to Pyongyang; by September the trip was back on.)When I brought up human rights, Moon Chung-in cut me short. Its for North Korea to decide. Its their destiny. We tend to have some illusion that we can shape the political lives of North Korea. Look at America, and how many times they intervened in the name of human rights and democracy. They always failed! He paused, as if reconsidering his words. He said that some Americans might argue that a free and democratic South Korea is a successful example of intervention. He disagreed. It was the people of South Korea who achieved democracy.In June, the DMZ summit and Singapore would be cited as significant factors in the landslide electoral victories for Moons Democratic Party. They took eleven out of twelve available seats in the National Assembly, and 14 out of 17 major municipality chiefs. Lee Jun-seok, Park Geun-hyes kid, lost badly. Liberals are now fully in control of South Korea. Moons approval rating reached 84 percent, an all-time high.Before leaving for Singapore, I visited the Yongsan Garrison, an American military base in the middle of Seoul. At 617 acres, and at its peak home to 22,000 U.S. military and other personnel, it is alarmingly large for a foreign military base in a countrys capital. It was originally built in 1910 by the Japanese Imperial Army during the occupation of Korea; in 1945, control of it passed to the U.S. Eighth Army. For Seouls ten million citizens, its a place of mystery; South Koreans must be approved for entry.Under a relocation agreement signed in 2003 by American and South Korean presidents George W. Bush and Roh Moo-Hyun, the U.S. Army is finally moving out of Seoul, to Camp Humphreys, 40 miles south, in the city of Pyeongtaek. The relocation was delayed for many years due to protests over the U.S. military presence, and the cost. (South Korea is responsible for 92 percent of the $10.7 billion budget for the move, on top of its annual payments of more than $800 million for the upkeep of U.S. troops in the country.)On the day of my visit, many of the barracks were already empty. A young American college student who had grown up on the base showed me around. She was home for summer break and was sad that by the next time she returned, it would all be dismantled. What are the chances of your childhood home being completely erased? she said, while leading me through what looked like an American suburb.One of the barracks had a sign that read YUJIN KATUSA SNACKBAR. What made me pause was the word KATUSAKorean Augmentation to the United States Army, a branch of the South Korean forces attached to the U.S. military. Growing up in South Korea, I had heard it mentioned often, although it seemed to me always with a trace of shame. All South Korean young men must serve two years of mandatory military service. Those who are selected for KATUSA are usually from the top colleges, and are typically regarded with envy, since they get a chance to practice their English and be posted in Seoul. But there is also an uncomfortable aspect to it. South Koreans are keenly aware that a group of their best young men are serving the U.S. Army, a sad metaphor for modern Korean history.The inclusion of KATUSA in the name meant that this was a Korean restaurant, and, sure enough, the menu displayed all Korean dishes, though some of it was fusion using the military supply of Spam and yellow Kraft cheese slices. The American student told me that the place is run by a halmoni (old woman) who had been there forever. Inside, I found a very small, wrinkled old woman clearing tables. When she sat down with a huge basket of soybean sprouts, I sat across from her and offered to help snap the tail off each sprout, as my mother does when making soup.Her name was No Jung-nyu. She was born in 1938 and had run this place since the 1980s. Her two daughters, now in their forties, cooked in the kitchen, and her middle-aged son worked the counter. She told me how life was hard, especially after the war, but here at Yongsan Garrison, she had found a home. Americans were so friendly and good to her. Very kind, she said.She was hoping to be relocated to Camp Humphreys. Because I came from America, she seemed to think I might have some pull. She was losing sleep at night worrying about the prospect of her future and her familys livelihood. They would all be jobless if they do not get selected, she said, and they loved serving their American army customers. When I asked her how the selection for relocation was being made, she said she had no idea, but that it would be Americans who decided who would go to the new base. Its always Americans who control.	Liberal
Julie was 16 years old when Bill Gothard, the founder of the fundamentalist Christian organization the Institute in Basic Life Principles (IBLP), pulled her aside at an IBLP event in 1996 in Dallas, Texas, to compliment her bright, shining countenance. She was 18 when Gothard, then 64 years old, invited her to work at IBLPs sprawling headquarters near Chicago. Julie spent her days in a greeting lobby, often alone. Every time she began to connect with her on-campus roommates, Gothard moved her to a new room. Despite being a conscientious rule follower, Julie was immediately considered rebellious by the other staff, one of the worst labels possible within IBLPs world of unquestioning obedience. She was called into her supervisors office and yelled at almost every day, despite being on her best behavior.Julie, who asked that her last name be withheld, believes that Gothard was isolating her socially so that she would only feel safe with him. It worked. Julie, now 38 years old, remembers Gothard being the one kind face in a miserable existence. He frequently asked her to stay in his office with him until well past the 9 p.m. curfew, a shocking breach of protocol in a culture where simply talking to a member of the opposite sex could lead to a public shaming, or, worse, being sent home. One night, as Julie was transcribing Gothards dictation, she noticed he had gone quiet. When she looked up, she saw that Gothard was staring at her intently, his erection exposed.Julie had been sheltered all her life and didnt know precisely what Gothard was proposing. But she felt unnerved enough to tell Gothard that it was getting late and that she needed to leave. It was only well into her marriage that Julie realized what Gothard had done. And it was only many years later that she saw the similarities between that moment and the stories of ten plaintiffs who had accused Gothard of sexual harassment and molestation, including rubbing their breasts and genitals while clothed and placing their hands on his groin. Some of the plaintiffs were minors at the time.IBLP parted ways with Gothard in 2014, following an internal investigation that, while finding no evidence of criminal activity, claimed that Gothard had acted in an inappropriate manner with members of IBLP. The organization has refused to release its findings, but Gothard has been blacklisted from all IBLP events and locations. When Gothard spontaneously showed up at an IBLP event in in Big Sandy, Texas, in April, the police were called to remove him.The plaintiffs suit was dropped in February, and Gothards camp declared vindication of its longstanding claim that the lawsuit was a coordinated conspiracy by a group of disillusioned, bitter women. The plaintiffs stated that they were not withdrawing their allegations of sexual harassment and assault, but that the lawsuit had been dropped due to unique complexities ... including the statutes of limitation.Still, IBLP hasnt entirely renounced its former leader. The IBLP website celebrates Gothards seismic influence on the organization specifically and the fundamentalist movement in America more broadly, going back decades to when he packed arenas with thousands of Christian conservatives eager to hear how his seven basic principles could shield their families from the cultural upheaval of the late 1960s and early 70s. Even when IBLP announced Gothards removal from the organization, it was quick to add that his departure in no way tainted the proud legacy of Gothards works.Ben Ziesemer, a longtime IBLP employee, told me that you have to separate the truths that Gothard taught, the Biblical principles, from a mans personality. But the question facing IBLP and other fundamentalist organizations is whether theology, personality, and an organizations culture can exist in isolation. The scandals that have emerged from some of this countrys preeminent fundamentalist institutionsPaige Pattersons Southwestern Theological Seminary, Bob Jones University, and Sovereign Grace Churches, just to name a fewsuggest that they cannot. This is partly why the wave of Christian fundamentalism that washed over America in the 1970s and 1980sa movement that intertwined moral purity and political activityis in retreat.IBLP is a case study in how a religious culture can implode when an authoritarian theology allows the most vulnerable to be targeted by predators. But the fall of Bill Gothard also reflects a larger shift in the way many evangelical Christians are engaging in American culture and politicsabandoning the call for moral rectitude in favor of a more purely partisan antipathy, which has found its greatest expression in the Christian rights support for Donald Trump.Gothard founded the Institute in Basic Life Principles (first called Campus Teams, then the Institute in Basic Youth Conflicts) in 1961. Beginning in 1965, he purveyed his teachings in a conference called the Basic Seminar, through which he created a loyal group of adherents who found safety in his rigid approach to a changing world. While Billy Graham was filling stadiums with the good news of salvation, Gothard was preaching a staunch countercultural ode to the lost virtues of a Christian society, which he said emphasized personal responsibility, the value of suffering, and submission to authority. Gothard attracted a following in major cities across America, usually visiting them twice a year. The Los Angeles Times estimated that, by the early 1980s, more than 250,000 Californians had attended the biannual Basic Seminar conference in L.A.Gothards principles went beyond the common fundamentalist warnings against alcohol and tobacco, calling on adherents to remove televisions from the house and to avoid music with a tribal beat. Men had to be clean-shaven, and women had to meticulously conceal their sexual appealthe most valuable, and dangerous, attribute they possessed. All these instructions were, Gothard claimed, pulled straight from Scripture. They were what God wanted.Gothards fundamentalist message gained traction at a time when conservative Christianity feared it was losing its privileged position in American culture, and Gothards success soon spread into the political sphere, in ways still felt today. Mike Huckabee has long been a Gothard supporter. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue says in an online review of a Gothard book, Nothing besides Scripture itself played a more important role in the daily guiding and leading of our family than Bill Gothard and the Institute in Basic Life Principles. The Christian-owned company Hobby Lobby donated millions of dollars and multiple properties to IBLP. Gothards institute even entered pop culture consciousness in 2015 when the Duggar family of reality TV fame sent their son Joshua to an IBLP campus in Arkansas for counseling, after discovering hed sexually touched four of his sisters as well as a babysitter.As Gothards dreams for IBLP grew, so did its reach. It began with two main properties in Michigan and Illinois in the early 1980s; over the years the organization added an array of campuses and offices throughout the United States and eleven additional countries, including Romania, Australia, and Russia. To help followers apply the wisdom of the Basic Seminar to daily life, Gothard launched the Advanced Training Institute International (ATI), a national network of homeschooled families committed to educating their children and organizing their homes around Gothards principles. While IBLP has declined to release numbers on the programs size, the ATI conference in Knoxville, Tennessee, was at its pinnacle attracting more than 15,000 attendees every year.The ATI curriculum is built on wisdom booklets, which claim to provide practical instruction in linguistics, history, science, law, and medicine. In reality, students are taught a twisted form of Jesuss teachings that focuses on themes of guilt, shame, fear, and self-flagellation. In one ATI booklet students are taught how to properly mourn by reflecting on 26 different categories of sin. For students raised under the ATI curriculum, the messageboth stated and implicitis this: If you are suffering, it is because you are outside of of Gods will.Students who leave or criticize IBLP often find themselves excommunicated from their own families. Others know not to mention the abuse theyve experienced, since their families still deny or minimize their claims. Survivors who publicly share their stories on Recovering Grace, a website and support group for former IBLP students, have been harassed by Gothards small but aggressive band of loyal followers. Because of all this, nearly every interviewee for this story asked that only their first name be shared. Others would only talk off the record.One of these survivors is Johanna, whose father physically abused her for years. When she went to the pastor of her church, which was full of fellow ATI families, for advice, she was told her dads abuse was the result of her not being submissive enough.Like all ATI students, Johanna was taught the umbrella of authority principle, which states that all authority comes from God, who then doles out that authority to parents (but mostly fathers), then pastors, then police, then higher government officials. Each humans duty is to stay under their particular umbrella of authority. The authoritys decisions can technically be appealed, but in Johannas case that meant groveling before her abusive dad, hoping he would eventually relent.When I asked Ziesmer, the longtime IBLP employee, about what a girl like Johanna should do, his skepticism of such claims of abuse was apparent. If the situation is abusive enough, a child can appeal to a government agency to intervene in their family, he said, but added, That is assuming that this young lady is not someone just wanting her own way.The idea that victims of abuse were to blame was rife at Gothards organization. The IBLP pamphlet Our Most Important Messages Grow Out of Our Greatest Weaknesses asks this question: What if a wife is the victim of her husbands hostility? And the answer: There is no victim if we understand we are to suffer for righteousness. In ATI Wisdom Booklet 36, students are taught that if a woman doesnt cry out while being raped they are equally guilty with the attacker.Johanna suffered silently through severe abuse, because in this system of beliefs there were no victims, because suffering is the way to righteousness, and because it was probably her fault anyway. Then her father punched her sister in the sternum so hard she couldnt breathe, a moment of clarity for Johanna, who eventually left home. Another former ATI student described Gothards ATI program this way: It turned every homeschool father into a cult leader, and their home into an island.Most ATI girls are expected to become a wife and a mother, via a courtship process facilitated by the father. Finding an afterschool job or preparing for college are either frowned upon or outright forbidden. However, as a generation of children raised in ATI entered their teenage years, another option emerged: working for IBLP.For ATI families, Gothard was a celebrity, a teacher, and a spiritual guru who took on godlike proportions in the minds of children. Some girls, like Johanna, were personally recruited by Gothard to come work for him. She was one of several girls known around headquarters as Gothards girls, a rotating group of attractive, teenage girls who functioned as personal assistants. Johanna had only known a chronically abusive father; in comparison, Gothard was, Johanna said, the nicest man Id ever met. At one point Johanna told him he was like a father figure to her. Gothard squeezed her hand, looked deep in her eyes, and said, I can be that for you.Many of the ten women who filed suit against Gothard in 2015 were once part of Gothards personally curated collection of teenage girls. But the damage he caused was not restricted to sexual abuse, or to the girls who surrounded him; throughout IBLPs organization women were subjected to multiple forms of emotional and psychological abuse, and physical neglect.Several people interviewed for this article described how their health was permanently ruined by their time at IBLP. At the age of 24, Lauren found herself on the leadership team for EXCEL, an eight-week program for teenage girls that focused on intensive spiritual training. Lauren routinely worked 80 hours a week, and sometimes as many as 100, believing that she would be held accountable to God for those who didnt hear Gothards message and went to hell as a result. As Laurens endocrine system slowly collapsed from exhaustion, she began having intense suicidal thoughts to the point where she wouldnt drive alone, for fear of what she might do. When she finally was taken to a doctor Lauren was told her body might never recover from the damage. She suspects this trauma is the cause of her infertility now.IBLPs Northwoods campus, a retreat center in Michigan, is the site of one of IBLPs most notorious stories. Gothards younger brother Steve had been caught at IBLP headquarters having sex with multiple women on staff, an already egregious violation of Gothards moral code, made worse by Bill regularly sending young women to the isolated Northwoods campus to serve on his staff. The women sentenced to serve as Steves sexual victims included Bills out-of-favor personal assistant Ruth, who claimed that Steve psychologically abused her for months before she was finally coerced into having sex with him. After leaving IBLP, Ruth had chronic nightmares of her experiences, and when she was 37 years old developed stage 4 breast cancer that ultimately killed her. Her husband Larne believes that the extreme traumatic stress she had experienced in her nine years working for Gothard made her more susceptible to the disease at such a young age.When asked for comment, Steve Gothard told me, I just wish this would all go away. I dont see what the point in bringing it back up is. (Gothard later claimed he had never spoken to me.)For years, the largest numbers of volunteers for IBLP ended up at the Indianapolis Training Center (ITC), a former hotel that housed several of Gothards projects, including a school for teenagers deemed rebellious. Parents temporarily suspended their rights as authority figures and gave all their authority to ITC. One of the rights ITC claimed was sentencing teenagers to solitary confinementbenignly labeled a prayer roomsometimes for days on end. One former ITC resident named Karis remembers her roommate being sent to prayer room for breaking curfew. The whole thing was traumatic, Karis recalled. My roommate was different when she got out. Before she had this bubbly, happy personality, and you werent allowed to be happy at ITC. Because happiness was a sign that you werent as spiritual as you were supposed to be. Joyful is different than happy.Students were always fearful one of their peers might report them to the head of ITC, Rodger Gergeni, who three different interviewees for this article independently referred to as evil. In 2002, local Indianapolis news affiliate WTHR reported allegations that students were handcuffed, sat on, beaten, and locked in prayer rooms for weeks at a time. An investigation into the allegations by the Indiana Family and Social Services, however, said the allegations were unsubstantiated.Gothard would often recruit girls from ITC to come work for him at IBLP headquarters. Multiple students recalled joking about Gothards harem. One student named Micah said, I saw him pick out young women who were obviously vulnerable and hurtingbut also very attractive. I heard him promise them theyd be right at the center of the next big thing he was planning. Those plans never came to pass, but I saw the girls come and go.When I talked to Bill Gothard on the phone in August, he was full of hope for the future of his ministry. He is in his eighties, but he believes his best days are ahead of him, telling me that God will let him live until he is 120. While Bill has lost access to the IBLP email list, which is full of potentially sympathetic ATI families, he is working hard to rebuild his following. Over the past few years, he has written 26 books, which are for sale on his website, and there are more on the way. He is waiting for word on a property in Mexico that, due to legal maneuverings, could be returned to him. If that happens, Bill could build a new base of operations.It seems unlikely, though, that this will come to pass. As a generation of ATI students have grown into adults, theyve fled the program en masse. Some have found a more liberating form of the Christian faith, while others have left religion altogether. If Gothard were given the keys to IBLP tomorrow, he would find a dwindling number of true believers left. IBLP, meanwhile, is frantically selling off its properties to make ends meet.Other Christian fundamentalist organizations are in similar straits. Paige Patterson, long lauded for saving Christianity from the clutches of liberalism (and who once wrote positively on Gothards doctrine of authority), was fired this past May as president of the influential Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary for a series of misogynistic comments and his dismissive, allegedly abusive handling of sexual assault claims. Patterson was a pillar of the old guard Southern Baptist movement, one of the Moral Majoritys most powerful cultural influencers. But this legacy is being rejected by a new generation of Southern Baptist pastors. New SBC President J.D. Greear is the youngest president in 40 years, and has publicly stated that the SBCs history of political involvement was a damaging distraction from the churchs mission to preach about Jesus.While Bob Jones University continues to be a fundamentalist hub at the intersection of conservative politics and Christian movementsboth Ted Cruz and Ben Carson spoke there in 2015attendance has dropped 26 percent since 2001, and a $4.5 million budget shortfall led BJU to lay off 50 employees in 2018. Meanwhile, students at Liberty University, headed by Donald Trump enthusiast Jerry Falwell Jr., have publicly expressed their disgust with Falwells surrogacy.While data on the spirituality of millennials suggests that younger generations still gravitate toward religious belief, including personal spiritual practices such as prayer, there is an increasing abhorrence toward religious authoritarianism. For Christians like myself, who have rejected the Moral Majoritys approach to the culture wars as well as Gothards repugnant twisting of Jesuss teachings, this is a hopeful trend.But these changes do not mean fundamentalist Christianity has necessarily turned a new leaf. If the culture warriors of yore expressed their opposition to liberal America through a loud, righteous embrace of Christian values, they have now thrown their weight behind the decidedly un-Christian Donald Trump. Indeed, white evangelical support for Trump has increased during his presidency, despite his unashamed acceptance of a lifestyle abhorrent to a traditional Christian sexual ethic, and his sneering at traditional Christian virtues like forgiveness, humility, and a compassion for the least of these.It goes well beyond Trump. The same religious leaders who railed against the collapse of decency during the Bill Clinton impeachment proceedings in the 1990s, declare their support for badly tainted political candidates now, like Roy Moore, the Alabama Senate candidate who was accused of sexually abusing minors.Gothards religious teachings are increasingly ignored today, even within fundamentalist churches, thanks in part to the various abuses they engendered. But the public sphere is another matter. Rather than reject misogyny, abuse, or patriarchal authoritarianism, a sizable segment of modern Christianity appears ready to tolerate these traits in its political leaders, as long as it is all in service of fighting the enemy, which is usually a shorthand for liberals. Gothards legacy is not his thousands of pages of bizarre dogma, but the insight he offers into the way the Christian right once responded to the threats posed by liberal America. He was celebrated by the culture warriors for promising stability in a changing world, all while he warped the message of Jesus to build an empire for himself and prey on the vulnerable. The victims of his abuse are still waiting for justiceand watching as many of their fellow Christians show, in their actions and their politics, that they really dont care.	Liberal
Almost exactly a decade ago, as the Federal Reserve worked to stabilize a careening stock market, overleveraged banks, and underwater mortgage lenders, it made a decision that helped fundamentally reshape the global energy industry. In the middle of October 2008, the Fed agreed to bail out Americas big banks, even the ones that werent failing, like JP Morgan Chase, Citigroup, and Goldman Sachs. That decision continues to be hotly debated ten years later. But its profound environmental impacts are, quite often, overlooked. The bailout was one of the most significant turning points in Americas role in the global climate crisis and perhaps its most important piece of environmental legislation, ushering in a decade of fossil fuel investment that has set the fight to curb carbon emissions globally back decades.Before Americas housing market collapsed in 2008, its fossil fuel sector had been in a period of lengthy decline. Domestic oil and gas wells had stagnated through much of the 2000s; production flatlined at around five million barrels, and many experts warned that shortages could be imminent. That began to change at around the time of the financial crisis. In 2007, a group of oil industry veterans, scientists, and private equity investors presented their findings at a conference put on by Goldman Sachs. Mark Papa, the head of EOG Resources (short for Enron Oil Group, an independent entity established in the wake of Enrons 2001 collapse), was there to sell investors on a new technology pioneered by Texas oilman George Mitchell in the late 1990s and early 2000s: hydraulic fracking. EOG, an early adopter, believed it had identified a vast swath of shale formations that could be fracked, and before too long, investors bought in. By 2008, the financial crisis was in full swing. With oil prices spiking, banks, seeking a sure bet, saw in fracking a tempting investment opportunity. The financials were somewhat shakyat that point, shale companies had been losing hundreds of millions of dollars trying to make the technology work and scale it out. Many would have folded if not for the massive and sustained financial backing that Wall Street, riding a recent infusion of taxpayer money after the bailout, was willing to provide.Even as oil prices dropped, investment continued. Those companies paid good dividends, said David Hughes, a fellow at the Post Carbon Institute. They werent profitable, but if you dont have any other place to put your money because of low interest rates, it isnt hard to find investors. So Wall Street banks took the money the Fed had lent them and plowed it straight into the fossil fuel industry. In recent years, bailout recipients JP Morgan Chase and Citigroup loaned over $900 million and $600 million respectively to EOG alone (its hard to know if every last dollar went into the companys fracking infrastructure, but its likely the overwhelming majority did). Each time shale driller Halcon came close to violating debt limits set by its backers, the companys lendersJP Morgan Chase and Wells Fargoloosened restrictions. Oil that according to pure market forces might have otherwise stayed in the ground continued to flow.The zero interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve, designed to help the housing market recover, compounded the problem further. As the Cambridge University professor Helen Thompson has written in her book Oil and the Western Economic Crisis, they allowed oil companies to borrow from banks at extremely low interest rates, with the worth of syndicated loans to the oil and gas sectors rising from $600 billion in 2006 to $1.6 trillion in 2014. Those low interest rates also meant that fracking companies could continue to refinance their debt even as losses mounted.The bank bailout had unwittingly become a bailout for the domestic oil and gas sector, which, as a forceful opponent in the fight over global climate change, ushered in an energy revolution that has now, ten years later, remade the global market. Its hard to overstate just how significant of an impact fracking has had on the fossil fuel industry. In September of 2008, one month before the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) was signed into law, U.S. oil producers cranked out less than four million barrels a day on average. That figure has more than doubled in the decade since. Today, its more than eleven million, and since 2015, the United States has begun exporting oil to other countries for the first time in 40 years. It is now the foremost producer of oil and natural gas in the world, outpacing both Saudi Arabia and Russia.Fracked oil, in particular, changed the contours of fossil fuel consumption. Today, 69 percent of oil and natural gas wells drilled in the United States are for fracking (up from 2 percent in 2000). There are now more barrels of fracked oil being produced in the United States than the entire oil total output this time ten years ago. When they started flooding the market, it drove prices down, increasing demand, and with it, consumption. As energy market analyst Pavel Molchanov, who works for the financial services firm Raymond James, told me, if it were not for production from shale, then, all else being equal, prices would be even higher than they are currently, and demand would be lower. When the bailout was passed in 2008, the world consumed 90 million barrels of oil a day; now, it consumes 100 million barrels daily, with half of that additional volume coming from American fracking fields. That has led to a surge in carbon emissions: In the United States, they are slated to increase in 2018 for the first time in years, despite the continued contraction of the coal industry. Global emissions have also continued to climb throughout the decade. Some of that can be chalked up to total global oil consumption, along with the expansion of fracked natural gas, which results in methane emissions that are likely comparable to coal, if not higher, Hughes said. A lot of the increase globally has come from fracking.It didnt have to happen this way. The massive investment in the fossil fuel infrastructure after the bank bailout could just as easily have gone to renewable technologies, like wind and solar projects, which, in an ironic twist, have been pilloried for their reliance on subsidies and inability to turn a freestanding profit. Today, thats a better description of the fracking industry, which has been on a massive money-losing streak. (Since 2007, energy companies have lost an estimated $280 billion on shale investments. Higher prices recently, along with reduced tax obligations, may help a handful of these companies break even, but certainly wont be enough to offset a decade of losses.)Of course, its possible the boom may yet be short-lived. Fracking wells decline in output rapidly. Production in the average well in the Bakkena key area for fracking shale in North Dakotadeclines 69 percent in its first year and more than 85 percent in its first three years, while a conventional well might decline by 10 percent a year. Many sweet spots have already been tapped; the Barnett shale in Texas, the original fracking field, has basically run dry. Still, the impacts of the increased carbon pollution are likely to be lasting. With oil now the number one producer of emissions in the American energy sector, and the United States responsible for the second most emissions globally after China, the shale oil boom permanently set back any meaningful attempt to slash emissions, including the Paris Climate Accords.As Congress goes about preparing for the next financial crisis, its crucial that they realize how their bailouts can impact the climate in these ways. But theres a hidden benefit, too. If shale oil is allowed to incur massive losses without conceding any claims to viability, shouldnt wind and solar be held to the same standard? In fact, the application of the bank bailout to a massive energy and infrastructure program provides a strange photonegative of what a Green New Deal might look like, if public funding flowed towards green energy projects that were safely shielded from the whims of the market.	Liberal
Politico published a downer on Friday. President Donald Trumps critics have spent the past 17 months anticipating what some expect will be among the most thrilling events of their lives: special counsel Robert Muellers final report on Russian 2016 election interference, the article began. They may be in for a disappointment. Thats the conclusion reporter Darren Samuelsohn came to after speaking with defense lawyers involved in the case and more than 15 former government officials with investigation experience.The logic behind Samuelsohns theory is that Muellers report may never be released to the publicand even if it were, it may not contain any bombshells because the special counsels by-the-books, conservative style may cause him to lean more toward saying less than more. In short: Dont get your hopes up, Trump critics.There are reasons to expect otherwise. If this were a normal criminal investigation, special counsel Robert Mueller would likely end it as quietly as he ran it. Prosecutors dont typically comment on what they find during a criminal inquiry unless they use it to bring charges, and for good reason. Investigators often trudge through intimate details of peoples lives, uncover embarrassing secrets, or find evidence of wrongdoing that falls short of criminal activity. Generally speaking, it would be deeply unfair for prosecutors to reveal what they learn outside of a courtroom.But the Russia investigation is more than that. Trump and his Republican allies in Congress have resisted efforts to learn the full extent and effect of Russian election meddling in 2016. Party leaders refused to create a Watergate-style committee or a 9/11-style commission to find the truth, while House Republicans have spent the last year trying to discredit and shut down the Justice Departments inquiry into the matter. By the time a Democratic president or Congress is able to order a full-scale inquiry, it may be too late. Memories fade. Documents go missing. Evidence disappears.As a result, the special counsels inquiry may be Americans best chance to understand an attack on their democracy. Mueller could wrap up his work sooner, later, or not at all. I wrote in April that if he is unable to complete the investigation because of political interference by the Trump administration, he has a duty to go public with his findings. That reasoning applies even if he wraps up the probe of his own accord. Muellers silence is ethically, legally, and politically smart while the investigation is ongoing. But to keep quiet after it ends would be incompatible with a democratic society.Under Justice Department guidelines, Mueller will provide a report to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein when hes done. Its unclear whether that moment is approaching. Bloomberg reported last week that Mueller is close to reaching a conclusion on the two main threads in the Russia investigation: whether the Trump campaign colluded with the Kremlin in 2016, and whether Trump himself obstructed justice through his firing of FBI Director James Comey and other efforts to undercut the investigation into election meddling. CNN disputed that account, quoting an unnamed Justice Department official who expected the inquiry to continue well after the midterms.Though Mueller hasnt taken public steps ahead of the November midterms, there are signs that he hasnt been idle. Investigators continued to question associates of Roger Stone, the longtime Republican political operative, about his interactions with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange during the 2016 election. The special counsels office reportedly met with former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort nine times in the last four weeks. Michael Cohen, Trumps former personal attorney, also sat for multiple interviews with Muellers team since Labor Day.Will Americans ever learn what they told Mueller? If he sticks with the practices of past investigations, maybe not. As Samuelsohn reported, Muellers findings may never see the light of day if he sticks to standard operating procedure. This may come as something of a surprise to Americans who remember independent counsel Ken Starrs lurid report on President Bill Clintons relationship with Monica Lewinsky, which Congress used as the basis for Clintons impeachment in 1998. But the law that gave Starr his independence is no longer in force, Samuelsohn noted. Because Muellers powers flow through the Justice Departments internal rules, he has far less leeway to make reports available to Congress or the public.In this case, silence would be untenable on multiple levels. First, the public needs to know the full extent of what Mueller has learned about Russian interference. Hes already done some good work on this front with the Internet Research Agency indictment in February and the Fancy Bear indictment in July. Despite the presidents habitual denials, those charges reaffirmed that the Russian government bore responsibility for what happened in 2016. And while its unlikely any of the defendants will ever see a U.S. courtroom, the charges provide a common set of facts for the public to understand the depth and breadth of social-media manipulation during the election.The need for accountability goes even further. Muellers findings would allow Americans to know who did what during the 2016 election and how they should be held to account. For some individuals, the answer may be criminal charges. In other cases, it may be useful to know what mistakes or acts of wrongdoing were committed so that changes can be made to prevent them from happening again. The 9/11 Commission, for example, made dozens of recommendations when it released its final report. While it may be inappropriate for Mueller to make the recommendations himself, what hes uncovered would be useful in helping others figure out what steps to take.Theres also civic value to knowing what happened. With so many threads and figures in the Russia investigation, its easy to lose track of why this all matters. At its core are questions about the validity of American self-government itself. Did the president conspire with foreign powers to take over the country? Did he break the law by trying to shut down inquiries into that question? Americans need answers to these questions for an abstract but fundamental purpose: so they can maintain faith in the nations democratic system, or take appropriate electoral action if that faith is not warranted.Official silence in this case would do more harm than good. Thanks to the Warren Commissions secrecy and mistakes, more than 61 percent of Americans still dont believe that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone when he assassinated John F. Kennedy in 1963. Widespread suspicions that President Gerald Ford made a corrupt bargain to pardon Richard Nixon during the Watergate crisis contributed to Fords defeat in the 1976 election. Muellers conclusion may not be accepted by everyone, of course. But the Russia saga is already a psychic wound in American political life. Without some kind of resolution, it will only continue to fester for the next hundred years.Its true that a report by Mueller likely wont provide definitive answers on every aspect of Russian interference, and may even fail to answer key questions about what happened. That task will likely fall to historians, as it often has in the past. Americans shouldnt have to wait that long for answers, though. At least half of the country believes the president may have cooperated with a foreign government while it broke the law to win his office. If Mueller can prove collusion, the American people deserve to know. If Mueller cant prove it, that would be important to know, too.	Liberal
Beto ORourke, the three-term congressman from El Paso trying to unseat Texas Senator Ted Cruz in next months midterms, may be the Democrats biggest rising star since Barack Obama. Over the last few months, he has gone viral in defending NFL players right to protest during the national anthem and air-drumming to The Whos Baba ORiley. He has broken fundraising records, raking in $38 million for his campaign against Cruz in only three months. Just about every national publication has devoted page upon page to profiling his quixotic quest to turn TexasTexas!blue. He even skateboarded on stage without looking like a complete dork.But with just over two weeks to go until the election, ORourkes momentum seems to have fizzledin Texas, at least. After appearing to be within spitting distance (in a few polls, at least) earlier in the campaign, ORourke has consistently trailed Cruz by between seven and ten points in recent days. That outperforms Cruzs last opponent, then-Congressman Paul Sadler, who lost by 16 points in 2012, but not by as much as you would expect, given ORourkes fame.But in recent weeks, its become increasingly clear that ORourke has a back-up plan: the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. From his discussions about inspiration and American greatness to his fierce rhetoric on climate change, ORourke is aiming at a national audience. While hes certainly to the right of, say Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, hes unabashedly liberal in a state where Democrats are typically conservative. ORourkemuch like, it should be said, Cruzis running for two races simultaneously, senator and president.ORourkes national appeal was to an extent strategic and to an extent inevitable. It was strategic insofar as Texas is a very large state and therefore a very expensive one in which to run a statewide election. Democrats have lacked the stomach to invest heavily in smaller states they dream of converting, like Georgia, because so much of the political infrastructure candidates need has to be built from scratch. Given Texas size and population, even if that infrastructure did exist, it would be expensive to run a competitive race in the state. But nationwide appeal means ORourke (like Cruz) has done very well from out-of-state donors (though its unclear how well). At the same time, ORourke can thank his opponent for much of the prominence hes gained over the last several months. Democrats have been dreaming of winning back Texas for decades, and ORourke is their best chance in a while. Cruz is not only one of the most prominent Republicans in America, but one of the most reviled men in politics. Given his prominence, his complicated relationship with Trump, and the threat of a blue wave in the November elections, Cruz was always going to attract a certain level of attention. The national media loves an upset, and ORourke unseating Cruz would be an even bigger shock than Ocasio-Cortezs surprise defeat of establishment Democrat Joe Crowley. The national media also loves hip, handsome politicians, and ORourkes boyish charm and optimism is all the more appealing when the foil is Cruz, the Skeletor of American politics, as Jack Shafer argued earlier this month (even if Cruz is just a year older).With ORourke now a distinct long shot, the media has moved on to wondering if he will be a presidential candidate. In August, Vanity Fair said that ORourkes campaign was a lot like being in Iowa with Obama in 2007. This is an act of journalistic hedgingit doesnt make sense to deploy resources to extensively cover a guy whos going to lose by ten points, but it does if he can be construed as a potential 2020 frontrunner. But ORourke has, particularly down the stretch, run a campaign as if his next stops were Iowa and New Hampshire, rather than the Senate. At his recent debate against Cruz, ORourke pontificated about walls, Muslim bans, the press as the enemies of the people, taking kids away from their parents and Americas place in the world. These are things that matter in Texas more than many other places, to be sure. But this is also what one expects to hear at state fairs and town halls in states with early primaries and caucuses.ORourke has downplayed the 2020 talk, saying that his focus on national issues (and the president) is just him keeping it realsomething that Democrats in Texas just dont do. Democrats in Texas have been losing statewide elections for Senate for 30 years, he told Vanity Fair in August. So you can keep doing the same things, talk to the same consultants, run the same polls, focus-group drive the message. Or you can run like youve got nothing to lose. Thats what my wife, Amy, and I decided at the outset. What do we have to lose? Lets do this the right way, the way that feels good to us. We dont have a pollster. Lets talk about the things that are important to us, regardless of how they poll. Lets not even know how they poll. Of course, running on authenticity is exactly how a consultant would tell you to run against the ever-calculating Cruz.If ORourkes bid somehow succeeds, he would immediately become a frontrunnermaybe, with the possibility of a blue Texas, the frontrunner. (The polls says hes also a top ten contender.) But ORourkes fate, two weeks out, seems close to sealed: Even $38 million only goes so far. Its also unlikely that if ORourke gets walloped, hell be able to carry the same swagger into Iowa and New Hampshire. Missouris Jason Kander won over a lot of nationwide Democrats with his losing Senate bid in 2016. Hes been able to parlay that into a national profile, but isnt exactly being whispered about as a presidential candidate.But however this plays out, ORourke has already accomplished a lot: He has shown  Democrats how to run brave, uncompromised campaigns in the Trump era. As The Ringers Justin Charity wrote earlier this week, ORourkes supporters have come to regard his campaign as a quixotic candidacy: doomed but nonetheless hopeful, if only because ORourke has run so shamelessly through Texas as a true-blue liberal. This is what the Democratic base wants out of the 2020 primaryespecially with well-heeled centrists like Michael Bloomberg and Howard Schultz kicking the tires. And ORourke isnt just running the kind of campaign Democrats in Texas want to see. Hes running the kind of campaign Democrats around the country want to see.	Liberal
Ayanna Pressleys surprise primary win over Michael Capuanoa power in Boston politics, with 20 years in Congress representing the Massachusetts 7th and the support of virtually the entire state Democratic establishmentdefies easy explanation. Unlike other insurgent leftists who have roiled the political landscape this campaign season, she had trouble outflanking Capuano, a stalwart liberal who supported Medicare for All well before it was popular, from the left. But she did have some advantages. Shes young44 years old to his 66. She is black and he is white, a decisive factor in a district that had become majority-minority in the decades Capuano has served in Congress. Most important, she was something new, and something new seems very much to be what voters want. Pressley packed her message of transformation into a three-word slogan that captured the urgency and promise of the first campaign season of the Trump era: Change cant wait.If Democratic leaders in Congress have given the impression that they are clueless riders on the tiger of an inflamed Democratic baseconsider their tepid slogans A Better Deal and For the Peoplehere was the tiger itself, muscular and immediate. The national press seized on Pressleys slogan as a kind of mantra for a new political generation. CNN declared that it connected the Democratic optimism of the early Barack Obama years to the urgency of Donald Trumps presidency. The network was right; Pressley was clearly paying homage to the last great Democratic slogan, Obamas Change we can believe in. But even as she was harnessing Obamas rhetorical prowess to target his poisonous successor in the White House, she was also making a critique of Obama and his legacy, and of the party he left behind.The Obama presidency was indeed a source of inspiration for African Americansan eight-year showcase of a healthy and successful black family spanning three generations, with two dogs to boot, as Ta-Nehisi Coates put itbut it was also a source of frustration. The pace of change was too slow, and Obamas temperament too unflappable in the face of widespread social injustice. He was caught between suspicious white voters on the right and the enormous expectations of black voters (and white liberals) on the left, which limited his ability to address the issues of race head on. His famously artful response to the death of Trayvon Martin in 2012If I had a son, hed look like Trayvonwas a case in point: a constrained attempt at catharsis.Those frustrations extended to Obamas steady, deliberate approach to issues beyond race: stagnant wages, student debt, sexism in the workplace (and now, the White House), a broken health care system, a broken immigration system, and the yawning divide between the rich and everyone else. For many Democrats, these issues require more daring policiesMedicare for All, the abolition of ICEthan what Obama was willing to offer. They will also require a fundamentally different kind of politician. Those closest to the pain should be closest to the power, Pressley would say during her campaignanother striking line that, like her slogan, is sure to make certain Democrats wince, as it implicitly pits groups (minorities, working people) against others (whites, the wealthy).But the real downside to Pressleys slogan lies not in its class and identity politics, but in its unapologetic impatience. Democrats like Pressley want not just to send Donald Trump back to the world of reality television, but also to right the nations long history of wrongs with a dramatic flurry of legislative action. If, as many expect, Democrats take back the House in 2018, they will still be in a very rowdy minority, since any bill they pass will meet opposition from the Republicans in the Senate and the White House. The real challenge will come if Democrats are able to build off that success to win back control of the entire federal government in 2020. Then, there will be pressure from Democrats like Pressley to repudiate Obamas measured style, as well as his repeated deference to the ghost of a bipartisan consensus that had all but vanished by the time he reached office.Can this new kind of Democrat be realistic about the pace of change in a divided country, and, for that matter, in a divided party? Can the party move at a blistering pace without falling apart? That remains to be seen. Campaigns, of course, are not a time for realism but for expressing hopes and dreams, anger and frustration. In this respect, todays insurgent Democrats are not all that different from those who, back in 2008, believed that change couldnt come soon enough, who were themselves clawing their way out of the political wilderness, and who were encapsulated in another, similarly determined Obama slogan: Yes, we can. 	Liberal
Its been a year since the New York Times and New Yorker published their bombshell articles outlining how Harvey Weinstein had sexually harassed and assaulted women for three decades. Since then, the #MeToo movement has turned millions of women into the streets, toppled prominent men in Hollywood, media, politics, and Silicon Valley, and sparked a long overdue discussion about sexual abuse, especially in the workplace. Meanwhile, the Democrats have moved left on issues from the minimum wage to college tuition, health care, and job guarantees. But perhaps surprisingly, there has been no such shift toward expanding the social safety net for victims of sexual harassment or domestic abuse. Some Democratic candidates have been discussing #MeToo on the campaign trail: In Texas, House candidate MJ Hegar revealed that she was a survivor of domestic violence in her viral campaign ad Doors;  Anna Eskamani, who is running for a seat in Floridas state house, spoke about being sexually harassed in her workplace; and Rachel Crooks won a seat in the Ohio state legislature in May after she publicly accused Donald Trump of forcibly kissing her in an elevator in 2005. But discussions of what they would do, if elected, to change workplace and domestic abuse policies for the better are less common. One of these solutions is simple: paid sick and safe days for survivors of domestic abuse. The policy has been around since 2005, and in other countries, it has been growing increasingly popular. Over the summer, New Zealand passed a law that grants ten days paid leave to survivors of domestic violencetime to flee their abuser and find housing, medical care, and legal assistance. Some states have passed similar laws. Currently, 33 provide some type of unemployment assistance to victims of domestic or sexual abuse, and ten offer mandatory paid sick days. Its spreading like wildfire, said Marium Durrani, a senior policy attorney at the National Network to End Domestic Violence. A lot more are following suit. There are prototypes of federal bills making their way through Congress now, but theyve been mired in congressional gridlock. Last November, a month after the Weinstein allegations broke, Washington Senator Patty Murray reintroduced her Security and Financial Empowerment (SAFE) Act to Congress. If passed, it would allow survivors to take up to 30 days off work to access the support they need, as well as protect victims from being fired if they are harassed at work. Meanwhile, a more general bill, The Healthy Families Act, would guarantee up to seven days of paid sick leave for all working families. Representative Rosa DeLauro introduced it in the House in March of last year.These bills arent just good policy. Theyre good politics. With President Trump cutting already limited funds for survivors, they would help Democrats draw contrasts between themselves and the administration. And with the framework for paid sick days already in place in some states, the legislation could be easier to pass than other domestic violence billsespecially if the Democrats, as expected, take back the House in November.One in four women in the United States face some form of domestic abuse in their lifetimes, whether its physical, emotional, psychological, or sexual. This comes with an economic cost. Abusers often delay or prevent their partners from getting to work. This is a classic example of power and control, said Qudsia Raja, the policy director at The National Domestic Violence Hotline. The abuser will try to manipulate any form of support the survivor has, and obviously your job is a big form of support.In other cases, women are harassed when they arrive at workand when they report the abuse, according to a recent survey by the Maine Department of Labor, 60 percent either quit or are fired. In the United States alone, victims of abuse lose eight million paid days of work each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Thats roughly 32,000 full-time jobs that employers arent filling, creating an unpredictable workforce rife with absenteeism and employee turnover. Even when victims do turn up to work, they are less motivated and demoralized, which stunts their advancement. But despite the magnitude of the problem, its hard to pass legislation that would help fix the issue. For one, domestic abuse has long been considered a private issue rather than a public one. It was only around 1994when Congress finally passed the Violence Against Women Act, which marked the first comprehensive federal legislation protecting and preventing women from rape and batterythat domestic abuse was first considered a human rights issue, rather than something that happened in private, behind closed doors.Still, domestic violence remains notoriously underreported. The Bureau of Justice Statistics had found that serious domestic violence was 31 percent more likely to go unreported to law enforcement for fear of reprisaleither from their partner, or on occasion, even from the government, which, in jurisdictions that have nuisance ordinances, actually punishes women who call 911 too many times.From a legislative perspective, its hard to prevent women from being penalized for reporting abuse: Each state has different laws, and employers are given wide latitude to decide when and if to fire someone (domestic violence is not a protected class of employment, under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964), so if an abuser does call or turn up at the workplace of their victim and cause a disturbance, the employee is left vulnerable. And even if Congress were to pass a law to prohibit discrimination based on an abusers behavior towards a victim, how would they enforce it? A policy that gives victims of domestic violence access to paid sick days, on the other hand, would be much easier to implement. Today, more than 40 percent of private sector workers in the United States have no access to paid sick daysa problem that persists because of aggressive business lobbing and the weakening of labor unions. Organizations like the National Federation of Independent Business and the Chamber of Commerce have consistently resisted paid leave policies, arguing that theyre expensive and that it should be left up to a company to decide how much is offered. This means that women who are financially dependent are often trapped in abusive relationships because they cant take the time off work to flee their abusers or pursue them in court. If you miss your court hearing, then you dont get your protective order, said Durrani, who, before she joined the National Network to End Domestic Violence, was a lawyer representing victims of domestic violence in court. Or you miss your job and your employer finds grounds to terminate you, and you probably dont have resources to combat that. Beyond the physical and emotional implications of abuse, there are these long reaching ramifications. Murrays bill, and others like it, are a remedy for this. One of the main conservative concerns about legislation like Murrays SAFE Act is the cost: When a similar bill was introduced in Maryland, the National Federation of Independent Business, a conservative group funded by the Koch Brothers, argued that the legislationThe Healthy Working Family Actcould decrease output by over $1.5 billion by 2027. This would lead to reduced profitability, lost sales and production, and lost jobs, wrote Senior Data Analyst Michael Chow in a February 2017 report for the NFIB. But thats not the full story. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention estimated in 1995 that violence against women costs American companies $727.8 million in lost productivity each yearmore than enough to make up the shortfall that Murrays SAFE Act would produce. By allowing women to pursue safety without sacrificing a paycheck or their job, paid sick and safe days keep women in the workforce, which helps employers tap into a talent pool that is currently underused. Moreover, the Center for American Progress has found that when states passed similar paid family and medical leave laws, small business actually improved their profitability: their workers were more productive, their recruitment more effective, and their employees stayed at the company longer, too.We view this as making sure that workplaces implement policies so everyone can equally thrive, said Sarah Gonzalez Bocinski, a program manager at Futures Without Violence, a nonprofit that works to end domestic and sexual violence. Victims should not have to chose between job security and their own safety. Its really a terrible choice that individuals have to make, especially for those in the lowest income jobs.For Democrats in Congress, aligning themselves with such legislation is smart from a strategic standpoint, as well. For one, it would help them set themselves apart from the president, who has not only stood by accused abusers but also ordered officers to reject the asylum applications of people who claim to be victims of domestic or gang violence. The bill also has the dual benefit of protecting both workers and businesses, at least in the long run. As the Democrats seek a message that sticks, these are just the kinds of policies they need more of, setting themselves up as the party of workers once more.#MeToo has created an opportunity where employers are reflecting on their own policies, particularly around sexual harassment, Bocinski said. Now, its time for Democrats to talk more broadly about a range of gender based violence and how [it] can manifest [itself] in the workplace. 	Liberal
After Scott Pruitt resigned from the Environmental Protection Agency this summer, many in the mediathis reporter includedwondered whether Ryan Zinke might be the next to go. The Interior secretary was facing more than a dozen investigations over allegedly unethical and wasteful behavior at the agency. Zinkes fate, however, ultimately depended on the results of those investigations. So many were alarmed when The Hill reported on Tuesday that Zinke was getting rid of the person in charge of several of those inquiriesand would replace her with a Trump political appointee with no experience in government oversight. The Hills information seemed pretty solid. It came from an email Fond Farewell and sent by Ben Carson, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, to agency staff. It is with mixed emotions that I announce that Suzanne Israel Tufts, our Assistant Secretary for Administration, has decided to leave HUD to become the Acting Inspector General at the Department of Interior, Carson wrote. Though not explicit, this implied that Mary Kendall, who has served as the Interior Departments acting inspector general for nearly a decade, would be fired or demoted.The Washington Post, Outside magazine, and others soon picked up the news.This is a very big deal.  Politicizing the oversight function is dangerous, especially in the absence of any Congressional oversight. Changing IGs in the midst of multiple serious investigations of the agency's head should raise alarm bells everywhere.  https://t.co/G8YvcRfX91RM @RepRaulGrijalva, @RepMcEachin, @RepDonBeyer & @RepHuffman are urging scrutiny of the new @Interior Inspector General. It's deeply concerning that as IG this Trump appointee could interfere with the multiple Zinke Investigations currently underway. https://t.co/D2jQcFmjz3 pic.twitter.com/czpVYCggjVOn Thursday evening, though, the story changed drastically. Heather Swift, the head spokesperson at Interior, denied in an email to BuzzFeeds Zahra Hirji that Zinke ever planned to replace Kendall with Tufts, and accused Carson of sending an an email that had false information in it. This is a classic example of the medias jumping to conclusions and reporting before facts are known, Swift wrote, adding that Kendall is still in charge of the Inspector Generals office at Interior. Contradicting Carsons email, Swift said Tufts was merely considered as a potential candidate for a position in the Inspector Generals office, not offered the top job. I want to reiterate how bizarre and messy this is. The top @Interior spokesperson just accused @HUDgov (and really @SecretaryCarson) of sending out an email "that had false information" https://t.co/sZOnk56hn9Swifts attempt at a clarification has not quieted the outrage. This administration cant stop embarrassing itself or keep its story straight for five minutes, Arizona Rep. Ral Grijalva, the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, told Politico. Nobody is buying this explanation and were not going to stop pressing for answers.What this latest scandal has done, however, is shine a much-needed light on the messy state of agency Inspector General officesparticularly the Interior Departments. These offices, as the Project On Government Oversight (POGO) notes, serve as crucial independent watchdogs within federal agencies, and are indispensable to making our government effective and accountable. These watchdogs investigate agency mismanagement, waste, fraud, and abuse, and provide recommendations to improve federal programs and the work of federal agencies.Like Supreme Court nominees, Inspectors General are supposed to be nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate. This process ensures a critical, public vetting under oathand it ensures that the watchdog cant be fired by the head of the agency theyve been tasked with investigating. Swift noted this in her clarification email to BuzzFeed, saying Zinke couldnt have fired Kendall because only the White House is able to reassign senate confirmed officials. But Kendall was not confirmed by the Senate. Though she has been leading Interiors office since 2009, she has been serving only in an acting capacity. In other words, the Interior Department has not had a confirmed inspector general for almost a decade. If it had, there never would have been a question about whether Zinke fired her, because he wouldnt have had that power. This story wouldnt have been a story had there been a permanent IG in that office, said Elizabeth Hempowicz, the POGOs public policy director.The Interior Departments current inspector general vacancy is the longest-ever vacancy for that position. But its not the only one. Fourteen other agenciesincluding the EPA, the CIA, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Defensedont have Senate-confirmed inspectors general. Thats not a problem limited to the Trump administration, as many vacancies date back to the Obama administration. And as Hempowicz told me, Congress hasnt moved as quickly as they can on some nominations.Whatever the truth of Zinkes latest kerfuffle, Hempowicz sees one silver lining. I was surprised at the enormity of the response to this story, she said. It may have been just the brazenness of putting a political appointee in charge of independent oversight. But it also could mean that people have a real appetite to know that government is working the way its supposed to work, she said.Just hours after we spoke, with very curious timing, news broke that the Interior Departments inspector general had concluded that Zinke broke department rules by spending thousands of taxpayer dollars on travel with his wife. The new report says Zinke sought to designate his wife an agency volunteer in order to obtain free travel for her, that he often brought her in federal vehicles in violation of agency policy and that he neglected to get permission from ethics officials when he took campaign donors on a boat trip, according to Politico.It seems that Kendall is still in charge of oversight at Interior, and that Zinke still might be the next cabinet member to lose his job over a travel scandal. 	Liberal
On August 24, the tenants of two buildings near the Hollywood Forever Cemetery in Los Angeles received letters from their landlord notifying them of a rent increase of over $800 a month. The increase was not a result of repairs or tax increases but rather, the letter said, of the upcoming election in November. The section of the ballot in question is Proposition 10, which, if it passes, would repeal a 1995 state law prohibiting local governments from enacting rent control on apartments and homes built after that year (or even earlier in cities like Los Angeles and San Francisco). According to the letter: Although you dont want higher rent and we did not plan on charging you higher rent, we may lose our ability to raise rents in the future. ... Therefore, in preparation for the passage of this ballot initiative we must pass along a rent increase today. If the ballot initiative failed, however, the landlord, Rampart Property Management, promised to revisit the rent increase with a desire to cancel it.For Maria (who prefers not to use her real name out of fear of retaliation by her landlord), waiting to find out was too big a risk. An immigrant from Guatemala, she pays $600 a month to share a bedroom with her 11-year-old son in a two-bedroom apartmentanother family lives in the second bedroom, with a fifth tenant taking the living room. A couple hundred dollars extra in rent would not be feasible for Maria, who lives off welfare after losing her job last year. A month later, Maria received a second letter billed as an olive brancha reduction of the increase to $238 a month. When Maria and several other tenants went to the property manager to ask for an explanation, he told them that so many tenants had threatened to leave that the landlord had no choice but to lower the proposed rent hike.As the vote on rent control approaches, tenants across California have been harassed, served with eviction notices, and forced to pay more rent. In Concord, an entire building of 29 families was given 60-day eviction notices, with landlords explicitly citing Proposition 10 as the cause. In Modesto, tenants of a single-family building were not only notified of a rent increase, but also encouraged to vote against Prop 10, which the landlord said would eliminat[e] the current availability of single family homes to rent. Shanti Singh of the California renters rights organization Tenants Together says these are not isolated incidents: This is punishing renters for participating in the democratic process. And were expecting to see a lot more of this in the coming month. These efforts are part of a massive attack corporate landlords have been waging on rent control across the state. And though they claim to be speaking for the mom-and-pop landlords of California, the leaders of this campaign are some of the largest property owners in the country. Blackstone, the worlds largest real estate management firm, has spent nearly $7 million to defeat Prop 10. Other top donors include Equity Residential, the third-largest apartment owner in the country, and AvalonBay Communities, the twelfth-largest property owner. These mostly Wall Streetbased moguls have pooled as much as $60 million (with as much as $2 million raised in the last week alone) primarily to fund an enormous advertising blitz, eclipsing the $22 million raised by the coalition of over 150 housing advocacy, community, political, and faith-based organizations that, along with the California Democratic Party, has rallied around the ballot initiative.If Proposition 10 passes, it would be not only the most significant attempt to roll back state limitations on rent control, but also the greatest success to date of the burgeoning national tenants rights movementand real estate groups are responding with full force. Rent control, which is illegal in 27 states, has become a campaign issue across the country, and the landlord lobby has been rushing to squelch tenants rights campaigns wherever they spring up.In Boston, a bill far more modest than Prop 10it was intended merely to track evictions and give the city a way to notify evicted tenants of their rightswas killed in the state legislature this past May after landlord groups put pressure on lawmakers. In Oregon, the landlord lobby has already launched a multimillion dollar super PAC, More Housing Now!, to oppose an anticipated Prop 10like bill in the 2019 legislative session. In New York City in April, a proposal to freeze rents for nearly one million rent-stabilized apartments was defeated after the citys main trade group for residential landlords, the Rent Stabilization Association, reportedly spent over $1 million on lobbying in 2017.To owners, landlord groups seek to portray renters as poor, unpredictable, and conniving. A mailer sent out to condo owners across Boston by the Small Property Owners Association in 2017 warned owners that if tenant protection legislation were to pass, [d]isruptive renters will learn they can do anything with no consequences, no fines, no evictions. It added, Unevictable renters can pass their units & low rents on to their heirs. It never ends.To renters, real estate groups characterize rent control as anti-renter. In one recent ad, the executive director of the deceptively named California Council for Affordable Housing tells voters that Prop 10 will drive up rents, take rental housing off the market, and make it harder to find a place to live. Amy Schur of the Alliance of Californians for Community Empowerment, one of the organizations leading the Yes campaign on Prop 10, explains, They are using that message because they read the same polls we read, which show that a majority of likely voters in California support rent control and want fast action to prevent rent gouging. A 2017 poll by the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, found that 60 percent of likely voters in the state support rent control. In Oregon, a research firm this past May found that nearly two-thirds of those surveyed support expanding rent regulations. The antirent control rhetoric rests on the argument that rent control discourages developers from constructing new buildings, further aggravating housing shortages. But advocates say that landlord groups are blowing this threat out of proportion. Of all of the cities that have floated rent control legislation in the past few years, none have proposed extending rent control to include new construction. Even officials in Berkeleywho have been some of the strongest proponents of rent controlhave proposed transitioning apartments into rent control on a rolling basis, exempting newly constructed buildings for 20 years. And, a report published out of University of Southern California last week shows that cities with rent stabilization ordinances for existing units have seen no decline in new construction.Studies have indeed shown that rent control can affect existing housing stockbut for reasons real estate groups avoid spelling out. By taking advantage of loopholes for averting rent control requirements, landlords end up pulling more properties from the rental market, converting rent-regulated apartments into condos and reducing the overall supply of affordable housing. While rent control advocates acknowledge these risks, they maintain that rent control is necessary as a stopgap measure for tenants facing eviction in an extremely hostile rental market. Even a widely cited recent paper highlighting the potential negative effects of rent control found that, of tenants in San Francisco, beneficiaries of rent control are between 10 and 20 percent more likely to have remained in the same apartment since 1994 and that absent rent control essentially all of those incentivized to stay in their apartments would have otherwise moved out of San Francisco.Despite these benefits, the real estate lobbys scare tactics appear to be working. A poll this week shows that 46 percent of likely voters oppose Proposition 10 and only 35 percent are in favor. We are finding voters in our community who are crystal clear that they support rent control, and then say, So we should vote no on Prop 10, right? says Schur. In Mountain View, this summer, San Jose Inside reported that nearly 300 voters had been misled by paid signature-gatherers (some of whom said they were paid $40 per signature) into thinking that a rent control bill was pro-rent control, when in fact it aimed to repeal a rent control ordinance.In some ways this is an old story. The mobilization of networks of local politicians and homeowners, the explicit use of race and class stereotypes, the references to renters as second-class citizens, says Tony Roshan Samara of Urban Habitat, a grassroots advocacy organization for low-income communities of color in the Bay Area. All of this goes back to 30s, 40s, 50s. Were seeing the same politics of who gets to control land and who doesnt. But the scale of todays opposition campaign is a distinctly postfinancial crisis phenomenon, dictated by a race-to-the-bottom rental market. Since 2013, private equity firms like Blackstone have been purchasing tens of thousands of homes, converting them into rental properties, and bundling and securitizing them to create triple Arated single-family rental bonds. Unlike mom-and-pop landlords, who tend to rely on a single-fixed rate loan from a bank, this new model relies on big investments from Wall Street investors, who expect firms to extract ever-higher returns from their tenants. The financialization of the rental housing market has had profound ramifications, explains Schur. This is rip and runthe Blackstones of the world are not investing long-term in our communities, they are extracting wealth from California to give to investors in the global financial market. The impact of legislation like Proposition 10 on a local landlord is nominal compared to the impact on a group like Blackstone, which has a portfolio of around 13,000 single-family rentals in California and a 40 percent stake in Invitation Homes, a property management group with another 13,000 homes in the state.The viability of this profit structure relies on a great degree of political intervention, not just in ballot initiatives, but also into elected offices across the country. In Oregon, filings from the secretary of states office show that the More Housing Now! PAC and its member organizations have contributed thousands of dollars to help County Commissioner Loretta Smith defeat vocally pro-tenant candidate Jo Ann Hardesty for one of Portlands open city council seats. The PAC of the California Apartment Association, one of the groups behind the No on Prop 10 campaign, was among the top donors to the campaigns of incumbent candidates in four different city council districts in Sacramento, all four of whom won reelection. And theres likely far more money flowing behind the scenes: In 2015, the Mountain View Voice reported that the California Apartment Association had quietly funneled $90,000 to three city council candidates opposed to rent control through a PAC called Neighborhood Empowerment Coalition.For tenant advocates working to advance rent control across the country, these tactics havent come as a big surprise. Everyone expected to be out-funded by the real estate industry. Its just standard practice, especially during a housing crisis, when rents are really high, says Singh of Tenants Together. This election may be the first where the landlord lobbys influence has emerged into full view, but as campaigns at all levels of government continue to embrace affordable housing as one of the most pressing domestic policy questions, it wont be the last.	Liberal
The U.S. stock markets weeklong decline reversed itself dramatically on Tuesday, producing one of the strongest climbs of the year. A gain driven by strong earnings reports from bulwarks like Goldman Sachs and Johnson & Johnson pushed the market, which had lost 1,600 points in the previous eight trading days, up nearly 600 points. While the Dow Jones still sits about 1,100 points shy of its early October high, the gains have calmed fears that the nearly decade-long bull market was coming to an end. But if Wall Street was breathing easy on Tuesday, the media didnt notice. Instead, cable news focused on the disappearance of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, the upcoming midterm elections, and President Donald Trumps Twitter feed, where he called his alleged former mistress horseface. On Wednesday, in an attempt to work the refs, Trump called out the media for ignoring the markets gains, implying that he should be given credit for them.Network News gave Zero coverage to the Big Day the Stock Market had yesterday. @foxandfriendsBut the media isnt alone in ignoring good news about the market or the economy more broadly. After tethering himself to the stock market for most of his first year in office, Trump has distanced himself from its performance since Februarys nosedive. And after spending the first half of the year planning to campaign on the $1.5 trillion tax cut passed in late-December, since midsummer congressional Republicans have all but ignored their top legislative achievement of the Trump era. Its now clear that, far from being a boon, the tax cut is a liability for Republicans, with Democrats using it as proof of the partys upper-crust loyalties. Handed the strongest economy since the mid-90s, the GOP instead has decided to campaign much like its leader did in 2016: on a platform of fear.Back in February, Republicans planned a midterm strategy centered on the $1.5 trillion tax cut (which they promised, to much skepticism, would reduce the deficit) and on the strong economy (which they had inherited from President Barack Obama). The tax bill is part of a bigger theme that were going to call The Great American comeback, National Republican Congressional Committee chairman Steve Stivers told Bloomberg. If we stay focused on selling the tax reform package, I think were going to hold the House and things are going to be OK for us. In the weeks and months after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was narrowly enacted, Trump and other Republicans relentlessly flaunted the law as evidence of the partys fiscal bona fides.The message was supposed to be simple. Congress has reached an agreement on tax legislation that will deliver more jobs, higher wages and massive tax relief for American families and for American companies, Trump promised after congressional Republicans finalized the bill in December. Concerns about the potential adverse effects of passing a $1.5 trillion tax cut during a rosy economic periodnamely that it would balloon the deficitwere dismissed, despite the presence of numerous nonpartisan studies arguing that the national debt would increase by as much as $2 trillion. White House Budget Director Mick Mulvaney told CNN he thought the bill actually generates money,  while Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin argued the plan will pay for itself through growth. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters, We fully anticipate this tax proposal in the end to be revenue neutral for the government, if not a revenue generator.While the tax cut appeared to add rocket fuel to a booming stock market, Republicans were never able to connect it to perceptions about the overall health of the economy. Most voters, a recent Gallup poll show, do not discern any change in their economic well-being tied to the tax cut, while an internal GOP Bloomberg poll found that voters, by a two-to-one margin, believed the cuts favored corporations and the wealthy. Democrats were more effective in messaging and instead reframed the law as what it (mostly) was: an unnecessary giveaway to corporations and the rich. In terms of the bonus that corporate America received versus the crumbs they are giving to workers, to kind of put the schmooze is so pathetic, its so pathetic, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said in a January press conference. Republicans pounced at the time, thinking they had caught Pelosi making an elitist remark. But nearly a year later, many voters agree with Pelosi.On Tuesday, the Treasury Department announced that the deficit had increased by nearly $800 billiona jump of 17 percentthanks in large part to declining tax revenue. The leap was the largest since 2009, at the height of the Great Recession. In April, the CBO released a report finding that the deficit would hit $1 trillion by 2020two years earlier than initially thought. The rising deficit has caused Republicans, predictably, to call for entitlement reformmeaning cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Ever the cynic, McConnell this week deflected reports that the GOP tax cut was driving the debt increase and instead suggested that entitlement programs were the real deficit busters. Its disappointing, but its not a Republican problem, McConnell told Bloomberg on Tuesday. Its a bipartisan problem: Unwillingness to address the real drivers of the debt by doing anything to adjust those programs to the demographics of America in the future. But this has only fueled Democratic midterm messaging about potential GOP cuts to social spending. Sen. McConnell gave the game up in his comment yesterday, Maryland senator Chris Van Hollen, who chairs the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said in a press call on Wednesday. It was very clear from what he said that a vote for Republican candidates in this election is a vote to cut Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Thats what he said.With voters dismissing the meager benefits the tax cut bestowed on them, and the deficit ballooning, Republicans cant claim ownership of an economic boom thats been years in the making. So instead theyre embracing Trumps 2016 playbook: fear-mongering over Muslims, immigration, and crime. In the wake of the protests against Brett Kavanaughs confirmation to the Supreme Court, Republicans have argued, sometimes explicitly, that they must be kept in power to preserve the rule of lawthat Democrats will burn everything to the ground if theyre put in charge. You dont hand matches to an arsonist, and you dont hand power to an angry, left-wing mob, and thats what they have become, Trump recently said.Republicans also may be realizing what Hillary Clintons campaign realized too late in 2016: The economy is strong by most metrics, but millions of voters dont see it that way. Though the economy Trump inherited was booming, its gains were being reaped unequallythats partly why he won. Touting a strong economy to voters who have been left behind is far from a winning strategy, especially after passing a tax cut for the rich that has only made that inequality more pronounced.All of this may be beside the point. Republicans hurried to enact the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in part to please their donors, whose help they needed to fend off a blue wave in 2018. Sure enough, donors like Sheldon Adelson and the Koch brothers have opened their checkbooks, but Republicans are getting pummeled in fundraising in dozens of competitive districts: Democrats have out-raised Republicans in all 30 tossup races, according to FEC data released on Tuesday. Still, that money has done nothing to boost Republican efforts to sell the economy or the tax bill. Their messaging has been extremely poor, Steve Moore, who served as an economic adviser to Trumps 2016 campaign, told The Washington Post. Weve got the best economy in 25 years and they arent really talking about it. They are letting Democrats control the messaging.	Liberal
Its not difficult to imagine the political manipulation of social-media platforms. You can see the trolls, maybe similar to the employees of the Internet Research Agency in St. Petersburg that Adrian Chen investigated for The New York Times back in 2015, more than a year before Donald Trumps and the Kremlins complementary successes in the last U.S. presidential election. You can see these trolls squinting into screens, clacking away on keyboards, making their fake content show up in bad fonts down the Facebook feeds of gullible people all across America. You can see the targets of this manipulation shaking their heads in disdain about Hillary Clintons latest conspiracy against freedom. You might be inclined to have sympathy for the targets: They are, after all, citizens of the United States of America; their heads shouldnt be messed withespecially by a Foreign Power. But just the same you might suppose them to be, as a type, more politically excitable than informed. You might even suppose theyre stupid. Not like you, right?Thats whats difficult to imagine: the political manipulation of you. Ill flatter The New Republic in assuming that if youre reading this (thank you), youre a sophisticated person. How are any of these vandals of democracy ever going to get to you? This month, Sue Halpern shows us. The advanced micro-targeting she describes doesnt principally exploit ignorance or unintelligence, and it isnt principally represented by wild falsehoods networked through fools; it exploits the whole background of thought and feeling, as our online activity encodes them, against which we make our political choices; and it looks and sounds utterly reasonable. As Halpern writes:Political campaigns contend that their use of data . . . enables an accurate ideological alignment of candidate and voter. That could very well be true. Even so, the manipulation of personal data to advance a political cause undermines a fundamental aspect of American democracy that begins to seem more remote with each passing campaign: the idea of a free and fair election. That, in the end, is the most important lesson of Cambridge Analytica: It didnt just break Facebook, it broke the idea that campaigns work to convince voters that their policies will best serve them.But if that still seems abstract, lets consider what we already know from our lived experiences of the social media where all this targeting happens: We willingly help social platforms, the entire purpose of which is to monetize our data, build customized mind spaces that powerfully normalize in-group consensus and suppress constructive dissent. And yet when were on these platforms, we imagine were just thinking.	Liberal
In April, when the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees summoned Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to Washington, it looked as if the nation was finally going to reckon with the outsize role that technology companies now play in American elections. Seventeen months had gone by since Donald Trumps stunning presidential victorya success credited by many to his campaigns mastery of Facebooks advertising platform, as well as to the divisive agitprop seeded throughout Facebook by Russian trolls from the Internet Research Agency, whose 470 pages and accounts were seen by an estimated 157 million Americans.But that was not what brought Zuckerberg to the Capitol. Instead, he was there to diffuse the bomb dropped three weeks earlier by Christopher Wylie, former research director at Cambridge Analytica, the data science firm that Trumps digital team had employed during the election campaign. In interviews with The Guardian and The New York Times, Wylie confirmed that his company had taken data from millions of Facebook users without their knowledge or consentas many as 87 million users, he later revealed. Cambridge Analytica had used the information to identify Americans subconscious biases and craft political messages designed to trigger their anxieties and thereby influence their political decisionsrecasting a marketing technique known as psychographics that, more typically, is used to entice retail customers with ads that spark their underlying emotional reflexes. (This product will make you feel happy! This product will make you feel attractive!)Cambridge Analytica turned this technique sideways, with messaging that exploited peoples vulnerabilities and psychological proclivities. Those with authoritarian sympathies might have received messages about gun rights or Trumps desire to build a border wall. The overly anxious and insecure might have been pitched Facebook ads and emails talking about Hillary Clintons support for sanctuary cities and how they harbor undocumented and violent immigrants. Alexander Nix, who served as CEO of Cambridge Analytica until March, had earlier called this method of psychological arousal the data firms secret sauce.Cambridge Analytica had purchased its Facebook user data for more than $800,000 from Global Science Research (GSR), a company that was set up specifically to access the accounts of anyone who clicked on GSRs This Is Your Digital Life appand the accounts of their Facebook friends. At the time, Facebooks privacy policy allowed this, even though most users never consented to handing over their data or knew that it had been harvested and sold. The next year, when it became aware that Cambridge Analytica had purchased the data, Facebook took down the GSR app and asked both GSR and Cambridge Analytica to delete the data. They told us they did this, Zuckerberg told Congress. In retrospect, it was clearly a mistake to believe them. In March, around the time Wylie came forward, The New York Times reported that at least some of the data was still available online.Wylie, a pink-haired, vegan, gay Canadian, might seem an unlikely asset to Trumps campaign. And as he tells the story now, hes filled with remorse for creating what, in an interview with The Guardian, he referred to as Steve Bannons psychological warfare mindfuck tool. For months, he had been quietly feeding information to the investigative reporter Carole Cadwalladr, whose articles in The Guardian and The Observer steadily revealed a through-line from dark money to Cambridge Analytica to Trump. (Cadwalladr also connected Cambridge Analytica to the Brexit campaign, through a Canadian data firm that worked both for the Vote Leave campaign and for Cambridge Analytica itself.) When he finally went public, Wylie explained how, with financial support from right-wing billionaire Robert Mercer, Cambridge Analyticas principal investor, and with Steve Bannons guidance, he had built the algorithms and models that would target the innate biases of American voters. (Ted Cruz was one of Cambridge Analyticas first clients and was Mercers preferred presidential candidate in the primaries before Trump crushed him.) In so doing, Wylie told Cadwalladr, We broke Facebook.So Zuckerberg agreed to come to Washington to be questioned by senators about the way his companys lax privacy policies had inadvertently influenced the U.S. electionand possibly thrown it to Donald Trump. But what should have been a grilling turned out to be more like a sous videslow, gentle, low temperatureas the senators lightly rapped Zuckerberg on his knuckles over Facebooks various blunders, and he continually reminded them that hed created the site in his Harvard dorm room, not much more than a decade before, and now look at it! Of course, he reminded them with a kind of earnest contrition, there were going to be bumps in the road, growing pains, glitches. The senators seemed satisfied with his shambling responses and his constant refrain of My team will get back to you, and only mildly bothered when he couldnt answer basic questions like the one from Roger Wicker, a Mississippi Republican, who wanted to know if Facebook could track a users internet browsing activity, even when that person was not logged on to the platform. (Answer: It can and it does.)Shortly before this tepid inquest, Zuckerberg publicly endorsed the Honest Ads Act, a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Democratic Senators Amy Klobuchar and Mark Warner and Republican John McCain, which, among other things, would require internet platforms like Facebook to identify the sources of political advertisements. It also would subject online platforms and digital communications to the same campaign disclosure rules as television and radio.A tech executive supporting federal regulation of the internet may, at first, seem like a big deal. Im not the type of person that thinks all regulation is bad, Zuckerberg told the senators. I think the internet is becoming increasingly important in peoples lives, and I think we need to have a full conversation about what is the right regulation, not whether it should be or shouldnt be. But Facebook has spent more than $50 million since 2009 lobbying Congress, in part to keep regulators at a distance, and cynics viewed Zuckerbergs support for the new law as a calculated move to further this agenda. (Indeed, after California passed the strongest data privacy law in the country in June, Facebook and the other major tech companies began lobbying the Trump administration for a national, and far less stringent, data privacy policy that would supersede Californias.) Verbally supporting the Honest Ads Act legislation that is unlikely to be enacted in the current atmosphere of the Congresswas easy, especially when Facebook had already begun rolling out a suite of new political ad policies that appeared to mirror the minimal transparency requirements lawmakers sought to establish. The subtext of this move was clear: Facebook could regulate itself without the interference of government overseers.Zuckerbergs congressional testimony was the culmination of an extensive apology tour in which he gave penitent interviews to The New York Times, Wired, Vox, and more, acknowledging that mistakes had been made. This was a major breach of trust, Zuckerberg told CNN. Im really sorry that this happened. A month later, Facebook launched a major ad campaign, vowing, From now on, Facebook will do more to keep you safe and protect your privacy. Then, in mid-May, Cambridge Analytica declared bankruptcy, though this did not put an end to the whole affair. A legal challenge to the company by American professor David Carroll for processing his voter data without his knowledge or consent has been allowed to continue in the U.K., despite the firms dissolution.Republican and Democratic data firms are hard at work on the next generation of digital toolsdriven by the idea that political campaigns can identify and influence voters by gathering as much data about them as possible.Its impossible to know whether Cambridge Analyticas psychographic algorithms truly made a difference in Trumps victory. But the underlying ideathat political campaigns can identify and influence potential voters more effectively by gathering as much information as possible on their identities, beliefs, and habitscontinues to drive both Republican and Democratic data firms, which are currently hard at work on the next generation of digital campaign tools. And while the controversy surrounding Cambridge Analytica exposed some of the more ominous aspects of election campaigning in the age of big data, the revelations havent led to soul-searching on the part of tech companies or serious calls for reform by the publicand certainly not from politicians, who benefit most from these tactics.If anything, the digital arms race is accelerating, spurred by advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning, as technologists working both sides of the political aisle develop ever-more-powerful tools to parse, analyze, and beguile the electorate. Lawmakers in Congress may have called Mark Zuckerberg to account for Facebooks lax protection of its users data. But larger and more enduring questions remain about how personal data continues to be collected and used to game not just the system, but ourselves as sovereign individuals and citizens.In 1960, John F. Kennedys campaign managerhis brother Roberthired one of the first data analytics firms, the Simulmatics Corporation, to use focus groups and voter surveys to tease out the underlying biases of the public as the country considered whether to elect its first Catholic president.The work was top secret; Kennedy denied that hed ever commissioned the Simulmatics report. But in the decades that followed, as market researchers and advertisers adopted psychological methods to better understand and appeal to consumers, social scientists consulting on political campaigns embraced the approach as well. They imagined a real-world political science fashioned out of population surveys, demographic analyses, psychological assessments, message testing, and algorithmic modeling. It would be a science that produced rational and quantifiable strategies to reach prospective voters and convert them into staunch supporters. That goalmerely aspirational at the timehas since developed into a multibillion-dollar industry, of which Cambridge Analytica was a well-remunerated beneficiary. For its five-month contract with the Trump campaign in 2016, the company was paid nearly $6 million.The kind of work Cambridge Analytica was hired to perform is a derivative of micro-targeting, a marketing technique that was first adapted for politics in 2000 by Karl Rove, George W. Bushs chief strategist. That year, and to an even greater degree in 2004, Rove and his team set about finding consumersthat is to say, voterswho were most likely to buy what his candidate was selling, by uncovering and then appealing to their most salient traits and concerns. Under Roves guidance, the Bush team surveyed large samples of individual voters to assess their beliefs and behaviors, looking at such things as church attendance, magazine subscriptions, and organization memberships, and then used the results to identify 30 different kinds of supporters, each with specific interests, lifestyles, ideologies, and affinities, from suburban moms who support the Second Amendment to veterans who love NASCAR. They then slotted the larger universe of possible Bush voters into those 30 categories and tailored their messages accordingly. This approach gave the Bush campaign a way to supplement traditional broadcast media by narrowcasting specific messages to specific constituencies, and it set the scene for every campaign, Republican and Democratic, that followed.In 2008, the micro-targeting advantage shifted to the Democrats. Democratic National Committee Chair Howard Dean oversaw the development of a robust database of Democratic voters, while for-profit data companies were launched in support of liberal causes and Democratic candidates. Their for-profit status allowed them to share data sets between political clients and advocacy groups, something the DNC could not do with its voter database because of campaign finance laws. One of these companies, Catalist, now controls a data set of 240 million voting-age individuals, each an aggregate, the company says, of hundreds of data points, including purchasing and investment profiles, donation behavior, occupational information, recreational interests, and engagement with civic and community groups.Catalist was a game changer, said Nicco Mele, the director of Harvards Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics, and Public Policy, and a veteran of dozens of political campaigns. It preserved data in an ongoing way, cycle after cycle, so it wasnt lost after every campaign and didnt have to be re-created for the next one. Catalist got things going.The data sets were just one part of it. In 2008 and 2012, the Democrats also had more sophisticated predictive models than the Republicans did, a result of having teams of data scientists and behavioral scientists advising Barack Obamas presidential campaigns. While the data scientists crunched the numbers, the behavioral scientists conducted experiments to determine the most promising ways to get people to vote for their candidate. Shaming them by comparing their voting record to their family members and neighbors turned out to be surprisingly effective, and person-to-person contact was dramatically more productive than robocalls; the two combined were even more potent.The Obama campaign also repurposed an advertising strategy called uplift or brand lift, normally used to measure consumer-brand interactions, and used it to pursue persuadable voters. First they gathered millions of data points on the electorate from public sources, commercial information brokers, and their own surveys. Then they polled voters with great frequency and looked for patterns in the responses. The data points, overlaid on top of those patterns, allowed the Democrats to create models that predicted who was likely to vote for Obama, who was not, and who was open to persuasion. (The models also indicated who would be disinclined to vote for Obama if contacted by the campaign.) These models sorted individuals into categories, as the Bush campaign had done before mothers concerned about gun violence, say, or millennials with significant college debtand these categories were then used to tailor communications to the individuals in each group, which is the essence of micro-targeting.The Obama campaign had another, novel source of data, too: information that flowed from the cable television set-top boxes in peoples homes. Through agreements with industry research firms, the campaign sent them the names and addresses of individuals whom their models tagged as persuadable, and the research companies sent back anonymous viewing profiles of each one. The campaign used these profiles to identify which stations and programs would give them the most persuasion per dollar, allowing them to buy ads in the places and times that would be most effective. The campaign also minedand heres the ironyFacebook data culled from the friends of friends, looking for supporters.The fact that the Obama campaign was able to use personal information in this way without raising the same ire as Cambridge Analytica and Facebook is a sign of how American views on technology and its role in politics have shifted over the past decade. At the time, technology was still largely viewed as a means to break traditional political structures, empower marginalized communities, and tap into the power of the grassroots. Today, however, many people have a much darker view of the role technology plays in politicsand in society as a whole. In 12 we talked about Obama using micro-targeting to look at your set-top box to tell you who should get what commercial, and we celebrated it, said Zac Moffatt, who ran Mitt Romneys digital campaign in that election. But then we look at the next one and say, Can you believe the horror of it? Theres an element of the lens through which you see it. To be a technology president used to be a very cool thing, and now its a very dangerous thing.Despite the innovations of both Obama campaigns, by the time the 2016 election season rolled around, the technological advantage had shifted back to the Republicans, who had developed a sophisticated, holistic approach to digital campaigning that benefited not only Donald Trump but down-ticket Republicans as well. Republicans had access to a revamped GOP Data Center run by the party, as well as to i360, a for-profit data operation bankrolled by the Koch brothers network that offered incredibly detailed information on potential voters. The i360 voter files combined information purchased from commercial sources, such as shopping habits, credit status, homeownership, and religious affiliation, with voting histories, social media content, and any connections a voter might have had with advocacy groups or other campaigns. To this, Politico reported in 2014, the Koch network added polling, message-testing, fact-checking, advertising, media buying, [and] mastery of election law. Democratic candidates, meanwhile, were largely beholden to the partys official data provider, NGP VAN, with the DNC not only controlling the data, but deciding how it could be used and by whom.The Obama teams digital trailblazing also may have diverted attention from what the Republicans were actually up to during those years. I think 2016 was kind of the realization that you had eight years of reporters believing everything told them by the Democratic PartyWe know everything, and the Republicans cant rub two rocks together, Moffatt said. But if you look, the Republicans havent really lost since 2010, primarily based on their data fields and technology. But no one wanted to tell that story.One major plot-point in that storys arc is that the Republican Party devoted more resources to social media and the internet than the Democrats did. Eighty percent of Trumps advertising budget went to Facebook in 2016, for example. The Trump campaign was fully willing to embrace the reality that consumption had moved to mobile, that it had moved to social, Moffatt said. If you think about Facebook as the entry point to the internet and a global news page, they dominated it there, while Hillary dominated all the places campaigns have historically dominatedespecially television.Clintons loss hasnt changed the basic strategy, either. Going into the midterms, Republicans continue to focus on the internet, while Democrats continue to pour money into television. (An exception is the Democratic-supporting PAC Priorities USA, which is spending $50 million on digital ads for the midterms.) Republicans are reportedly spending 40 percent on digital advertising, whereas Democrats are spending around 10 percent to 20 percent. Democratic strategist Tim Lim agrees that ignoring the internet in favor of television advertising is a flawed strategy. The only way people can actually understand what were running for is if they see our messaging, and theyre not going to be seeing our messaging if were spending it on Wheel of Fortune and NCIS, he said. Democratic voters are not watching those shows.The Democrats are hampered by a structural problem, too: Each campaign owns its own digital tools, and when an election is over, those tools are packed up and put away. As a result, said Betsy Hoover, a veteran of both Obama campaigns who is now a partner at Higher Ground Labs, a liberal campaign-tech incubator, four years later were essentially rebuilding solutions to the same problem from square one, rather than starting further up the chain. The Republicans, by contrast, have been building platforms and seeding them up and down the partywhich has allowed them to maintain their technological advantage.After losing in 2012, one of the most creative things the Republicans did was apply entrepreneurship to technology, said Shomik Dutta, Hoovers partner in Higher Ground Labs, who also worked on both Obama campaigns as well as in the Obama White House. The Koch brothers funded i360, and the Mercers funded Cambridge Analytica and Breitbart, and they used entrepreneurship to take risks, build products, test them nimbly, and then scale up what worked quickly across the party. And that, I think, is a smart way to think about political technology.And so, taking a page from the Republican playbook, for the past two years Hoover and Dutta have been working to make Democrats competitive again in the arena of campaign technology. In the absence of deep-pocketed Democratic funders comparable to the Mercers and the Kochs, Higher Ground Labs acts as an incubator, looking particularly to Silicon Valley entrepreneurs to support the next generation of for-profit, election-tech startups. In 2017, the company divided $2.5 million in funding between eleven firms, and in April it announced that it was giving 13 additional startups an average of $100,000 each in seed money.Thats still a far cry from the $50 million the Koch brothers reportedly spent to develop i360. And Higher Ground Labs faces other challenges, too. Political candidates and consultants are often creatures of habit, so getting them to try new products and untested approaches can be difficult. With presidential elections happening only every four years, and congressional elections happening every two, it can be difficult for election tech companies to sustain themselves financially. And, as has been the case with so many technology companies, growing from a small, nimble startup into a viable company that can compete on a national level is often tricky. Its easy to create a bunch of technology, said Robby Mook, Hillary Clintons 2016 campaign manager, but its a lot harder to create technology that creates the outcomes you need at scale.Hoover and Dutta are hopeful that their investments in these startups will pay off. If the companies make money, Higher Ground Labs will become self-sustaining. But even if the startups fail financially, they may show whats possible technologically. Indeed, the new tools these companies are working on are a different order of magnitude from the searchable databases that companies like Catalist pioneered just a few election cycles ago. And if they help Democratic candidates win, Hoover and Dutta view it as money well spent. We hope to be part of the cavalry, Hoover said.The companies that Higher Ground Labs is funding are working on all aspects of campaigning: fundraising, polling, research, voter persuasion, and get-out-the-vote efforts. They show where technologyespecially artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data miningis taking campaigning, not unlike Cambridge Analytica did two years ago when it launched psychographics into the public consciousness. One Higher Ground-funded company has developed a platform that uses web site banner ads to measure public opinion. Another is able to analyze social media to identify content that actually changes minds (as opposed to messages that people ignore). A third has created a database of every candidate running for office across the country, providing actionable information to state party operatives and donors while building a core piece of infrastructure for the Democrats more generally.An opposition research firm on Higher Grounds roster, Factba.se, may offer campaigns the antidote to fake news (assuming evidence still matters in political discourse). It scours documents, social media, videos, and audio recordings to create a searchable compendium of every word published or uttered online by an individual. If you want to discover everything Donald Trump has ever said about women or steak or immigrants or cocaine, it will be in Factba.se. If you want to know every time hes contradicted himself, Factba.se can provide that information. If you want to know just how limited his verbal skills are, that analysis is available too. (The president speaks at a fourth-grade level.) And if you want to know whats really bugging himor anyoneFactba.se uses software that can evaluate audio recordings and pick up on expressions of stress or discomfort in a persons voice that are undetectable to the naked eye or ear.To augment its targets dossiers, the company also uses personality tests to assess their emotional makeup. Is the subject extroverted, neurotic, depressed, or scared? Is he all of the above? (One of these tests, OCEANdesigned to measure openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticismis actually the same one that Cambridge Analytica used to construct its models.)We build these profiles of people based upon everything they do, and then we do an analysis, said Mark Walsh, the CEO of Factba.ses parent company FactSquared, who was the first chief technology officer of the Democratic Party, back in 2002. As an example, he cited the 2017 gubernatorial race in Virginia, where Ed Gillespie, the former head of the Republican National Committee, ran against Lt. Governor Ralph Northam. We took audio and video of the three debates, and we analyzed Gillespie, looking for micro-tremors and tension in his voice when he was talking about certain topics, Walsh said. If you were watching the debates, you wouldnt know that there was a huge spike when he was talking about his own partys gun control policy, which he didnt seem to agree with. This was valuable intel for the Northam campaign, Walsh saidthough in the end, Northam didnt really need it. (Northam won the election by nearly nine points, the biggest margin for a Democrat in more than a quarter-century.) Still, it was a weapon that stood at the ready.These are the types of oppo things youre going to start to see more and more of, where candidate A will be able to fuck with the head of candidate B in ways that the populace wont know, by saying things that they know bothers them or challenges them or makes them off-kilter, Walsh said. After about 5,000 words, our AI engine can be quite predictive of what makes you happy and what makes you sad and what makes you nervous.Judging personalities, measuring voice stress, digging through everything someone has ever saidall of this suggests that future digital campaigns, irrespective of party, will have ever-sharper tools to burrow into the psyches of candidates and voters. Consider Avalanche Strategy, another startup supported by Higher Ground Labs. Its proprietary algorithm analyzes what people say and tries to determine what they really meanwhether they are perhaps shading the truth or not being completely comfortable about their views. According to Michiah Prull, one of the companys founders, the data firm prompts survey takers to answer open-ended questions about a particular issue, and then analyzes the specific language in the responses to identify psychographic clusters within the larger population. This allows campaigns to target their messaging even more effectively than traditional polling canbecause, as the 2016 election made clear, people often arent completely open and honest with pollsters.We are able to identify the positioning, framing, and messaging that will resonate across the clusters to create large, powerful coalitions, and within clusters to drive the strongest engagement with specific groups, Prull said. Avalanche Strategys technology was used by six female first-time candidates in the 2017 Virginia election who took its insights and created digital ads based on its recommendations in the final weeks of the campaign. Five of the six women won.Clearly, despite public consternation over Cambridge Analyticas tactics, especially in the days and weeks after Trump won (and before its data misappropriation had come to light), political campaigns are not shying away from the use of psychographics. If anything, the use of deeply personal data is becoming even more embedded within todays approach to campaigning. There is real social science behind it, Laura Quinn, the CEO of Catalist, told me not long after the 2016 election. The Facebook platform lets people gather so much attitudinal information. This is going to be very useful in the future for figuring out how to make resource decisions about where people might be more receptive to a set of narratives or content or issues you are promoting.And its not just Facebook that provides a wealth of user information. Almost all online activity, and much offline, produces vast amounts of data that is being aggregated and analyzed by commercial vendors who sell the information to whoever will pay for itbusinesses, universities, political campaigns. That is the modus operandi of what the now-retired Harvard business professor Shoshana Zuboff calls surveillance capitalism: Everything that can be captured about citizens is sucked up and monetized by data brokers, marketers, and companies angling for your business. That data is corralled into algorithms that tell advertisers what you might buy, insurance companies if youre a good risk, colleges if youre an attractive candidate for admission, courts if youre likely to commit another crime, and on and on. Electionsthe essence of our democracyare not exempt.Just as advertisers or platforms like Facebook and Google argue that all this data leads to ads that consumers actually want to see, political campaigns contend that their use of data does something similar: It enables an accurate ideological alignment of candidate and voter. That could very well be true. Even so, the manipulation of personal data to advance a political cause undermines a fundamental aspect of American democracy that begins to seem more remote with each passing campaign: the idea of a free and fair election. That, in the end, is the most important lesson of Cambridge Analytica. It didnt just break Facebook, it broke the idea that campaigns work to convince voters that their policies will best serve them. It attempted to use psychological and other personal information to engage in a kind of voluntary disenfranchisement by depressing and suppressing turnout with messaging designed to keep voters who support the opposing candidate away from the pollsas well as using that same information to arouse fear, incite animosity, and divide the electorate.Manipulation obscures motive, Prull said, and this is the problem in a nutshell: Technology may be neutral (this is debatable), but its deployment rarely is. No one cared that campaigns were using psychographics until it was revealed that psychographics might have helped put Donald Trump in the White House. No one cared about Facebooks dark posts until they were used to discourage African Americans from showing up at the polls. No one noticed that their Twitter follower, Glenda from the heartland, with her million reasons to dislike Hillary Clinton, was really a bot created in Russiauntil after the election, when the Kremlins efforts to use social media to sow dissension throughout the electorate were unmasked. American democracy, already pushed to the brink by unlimited corporate campaign donations, by gerrymandering, by election hacking, and by efforts to disenfranchise poor, minority, and typically Democratic voters, now must contend with a system that favors the campaign with the best data and the best tools. And as was made clear in 2016, data can be obtained surreptitiously, and tools can be used furtively, and no one can stop it before its too late.Just as worrisome as political campaigns misusing technology are the outside forces seeking to influence American politics for their own ends. As Russias interventions in the 2016 election highlight, the biggest threats may not come from the apps and algorithms developed by campaigns, but instead from rogue operatives anywhere in the world using tools freely available on the internet.Of particular concern to political strategists is the emerging trend of deepfake videos, which show real people saying and doing things they never actually said or did. These videos look so authentic that it is almost impossible to discern that they are not real. This is super dangerous going into 2020, Zac Moffatt said. Our ability to process information lags behind the ability of technology to make something believable when its not. I just dont think were ready for that.To get a sense of this growing threat, one only need look at a video that appeared on Facebook not long after the young Democratic Socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez won her primary for a New York congressional seat in June. The video appeared to be an interview with Ocasio-Cortez conducted by Allie Stuckey, the host of Conservative Review TV, an online political channel. Stuckey, on one side of the screen, asks Ocasio-Cortez questions, and Ocasio-Cortez, on the other, struggles to respond or gives embarrassingly wrong answers. She looks foolish. But the interview isnt real. The video was a cut-and-paste job. Conservative Review TV had taken answers from a PBS interview with Ocasio-Cortez and paired them with questions asked by Stuckey that were designed to humiliate the candidate. The effort to discredit Ocasio-Cortez was extremely effective. In less than 24 hours, the interview was viewed more than a million times.The Ocasio-Cortez video was not especially well made; a discerning viewer could spot the manipulation. But as technology improves, deepfakes will become harder and harder to identify. They will challenge reality. They will make a mockery of federal election laws, because they will catapult viewers into a post-truth universe where, to paraphrase Orwell, power is tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in new shapes of someone elses thinking.Facebook didnt remove the offensive Ocasio-Cortez video when it was revealed to be a fake because Stuckey claimedafter the video had gone viralthat it was satirical; the company doesnt take down humor unless it violates its community standards. This and other inconsistencies in Facebooks fake news policies (such as its failure to remove Holocaust denier pages) demonstrate how difficult it will be to keep bad actors from using the platform to circulate malicious information. It also reveals the challenge, if not the danger, of letting tech companies police themselves.This is not to suggest that the government will necessarily do a better job. It is quixotic to believe that there will be a legislative intervention to regulate how campaigns obtain data and how they use it anytime soon. In September, two months before the midterm elections, Republicans in the House of Representatives pulled out of a deal with their Democratic counterparts that would have banned campaigns from using stolen or hacked material. Meanwhile, the Federal Election Commission is largely toothless, and its hard to imagine how routine political messages, never mind campaign tech, could be regulated, let alone if they should be. Though the government has established fair election laws in the pastto combat influence peddling and fraud, for instancethe dizzying pace at which campaign technology is evolving makes it especially difficult for lawmakers to grapple with intellectually and legislatively, and for the public to understand the stakes. If you leave us to do this on our own, were gonna mess it up, Senator Mark Warner conceded this past June, alluding to his and his colleagues lack of technical expertise. Instead, Warner imagined some kind of partnership between lawmakers and the technology companies theyd oversee, which of course comes with its own complications.If there is any good news in all of this, it is that technology is also being used to expand the electorate and extend the franchise. Democracy Works, a Brooklyn-based nonprofit, for example, has partnered with Facebook on a massive effort to register new voters. And more Americans particularly younger peopleare participating in the political process through peer-to-peer texting apps like Hustle on the left (which initially took off during the Bernie Sanders campaign), RumbleUp on the right, and CallHub, which is nonpartisan. These mobile apps enable supporters who may not want to knock on doors or make phone calls to still engage in canvassing activities directly.This is key, because if there is one abiding message from political consultants of all dispositions, it is that the most effective campaigns are the most intimate ones. Hacking and cheating aside, technology will only carry a candidate so far. I think the biggest fallacy out there right now is that we win through digital, Robby Mook said. Campaigns win because they have something compelling to say.	Liberal
Every state routinely prunes its voter rolls when registered voters move, die, or get convicted of a felony. But under Secretary of State Jon Husted, Ohio has taken an aggressive tack to removing voters from state registration lists. The state purged more than two million voters from its rolls between 2011 and 2016. Many, if not most of those voters were likely ineligible. But over the past few years, as part of an annual audit of sorts, Husteds office has removed thousands of eligible voters from the rolls simply because they failed to vote in three consecutive elections and didnt return a postcard confirming their registration.Critics, including state Representative Kathleen Clyde, said this practice disproportionately affects low-income Ohioans and communities of color, two constituencies that typically favor Democratic candidates. In 2015, Clyde introduced a bill to block Husted from purging voters unless they leave the state. Two years later, she authored another bill that would enact automatic voter registration.Neither measure became law in the Republican-led chamber. And this past June, the Supreme Court upheld Husteds purge. But soon Clyde may be in a position to stop the practice herself: Shes the Democratic nominee to replace Husted as secretary of state, a position that would give her significant influence over the states election laws. Clyde is one of roughly a dozen Democratic candidates across the country who could become their states chief election officers if a blue wave sweeps through polling places in November. Their victories would provide Democrats an opportunity to turn back voter suppression efforts by Republican officeholdersand could give the party a leg up in voter turnout when President Donald Trump is up for reelection in 2020.Forty-seven states have a secretary of state, either as an appointed post or an elected office. While the positions duties can vary from state to state, the most common duty is to oversee elections and voting procedures, which are shaped by a mixture of federal statutes, state laws, and county policies. Navigating that legal labyrinth often falls to secretaries of statethe hall monitor, of sorts, for the nations democratic processes.The role has taken on a heightened significance in recent years. Republicans hold more than half of the positions across the country, giving the party an advantage when shaping the nations election processes. Some Republican secretaries of state have used the position to crusade against the purported threat of voter fraud. Though vanishingly rare in the U.S., voter fraud has provided a useful justification for more restrictive voting measures that have kept tens of thousands of Americans from exercising their right to cast a ballot.Democrats have an opportunity in the November midterm elections to tear down those barriers. Roughly two-thirds of the nations elected secretary of state positions are on the ballot this year, and Republicans are defending seven open seats, versus none for Democrats. (Governing magazine has rated eight races as competitiveand all seats currently held by Republicans.) Whats more, the secretaries of state elected this year will serve during the 2020 presidential election, meaning that Democratic officeholders would be well-placed to expand voter access in battleground states like Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Ohio, and Wisconsin should they prevail in two weeks.Some contests have already drawn national attention. Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp, the Republican candidate for governor, froze 53,000 voter registration forms for dubious reasons, according to an Associated Press investigation earlier this month. More than 70 percent of the forms came from black applicants, raising concerns that the freeze is aimed at reducing voter turnout for Stacey Abrams, Kemps Democratic opponent. (If elected, Abrams would be the first black woman governor in American history.) Kemp also presided over a sweeping purge of the states voter rolls that removed almost 700,000 voters over the past two years.Brad Raffensperger, the Republican candidate to replace Kemp, said at a debate earlier this month that he would continue the purges to safeguard and keep our elections clean. Jack Barrow, the Democratic challenger, opposes them. Just because the Supreme Court allows you to discriminate doesnt mean you must discriminate, he wrote on Twitter after the courts ruling in the Ohio case. As your next Secretary of State, Ill protect citizens who choose not to vote and keep them from being purged from voter rolls. Barrow has also been critical of Kemps approach to election cybersecurity after Russian hackers targeted state election systems in 2016.Kansas also moved to the center of the voting-rights wars after Kris Kobachs election as secretary of state in 2010. He became a national spokesman of sorts for restrictive voting laws, championing the states strict voter ID law, successfully persuading Kansas lawmakers to let his office prosecute voter-fraud cases, and overseeing a dubious interstate anti-fraud program with a high false positive rate. His efforts to add a proof-of-citizenship requirement to the states voter registration forms sparked a legal showdown with the ACLU, which successfully argued in court that the move violated federal election law. A federal judge found Kobach in contempt earlier this year for failing to register voters who had been previously blocked by the requirement. Kobach is leaving the secretary of state post because hes running for governor (and facing a strong challenge from Democratic state Senator Laura Kelly, who backed his voter citizenship bill).Its hard to imagine a sharper contrast to Kobach than Brian McClendon, the Democratic candidate to replace him. A former Google vice president who helped build Google Earth, McClendon is one of multiple Democrats running for secretary of state offices who have emphasized election cybersecurity. Hes also sketched out a less centralized version of the Kansas secretary of states office that focuses on voter access. With appropriate leadership and support from the state, county elections staff are admirably effective at managing voting rolls, he told the Topeka Capital-Journal in June. And the office of the attorney general is better staffed and better qualified to handle law enforcement and prosecutions in the rare instances of voter fraud.Not every Republican secretary of state has tried to suppress voter participation, and not every Democratic candidate will have the power to carry out sweeping changes if they win next month. Some races, in fact, are referendums on expanding voter access rather than suppressing it: Michigans secretary of state contest is taking place alongside a major ballot initiative that would enact automatic voter registration, Election Day registration, no-excuse absentee ballots, and a slate of other reforms. Jocelyn Benson, the Democratic candidate, supports the initiative, while her Republican opponent Mary Treder Lang does not.Secretary of state contests havent always been high profile or high stakes. But as the Supreme Court abandons its role as a guardian of voting rights, and the Trump administration ramps up its efforts to combat the illusory threat of voter fraud, this once-esoteric position could be a key bulwark in protecting Americans right to choose their own political destiny.	Liberal
In the summer of 2017, when the midterm elections were more than a year away but already on everyones mind, Democrats seemed to have an embarrassment of riches. President Donald Trump was historically unpopular and engulfed in myriad scandals, from the tawdry (an alleged affair with a porn star, covered up with campaign funds) to the corrupt (using the presidency to enrich family businesses) to the existential (Robert Muellers investigation into the Trump campaigns possible collusion with the Russian government to influence the 2016 election). Some of Trumps cabinet members were similarly engulfed. His White House had become a reality TV psychodrama that not even Bravos producers could have dreamed up. And Congress, despite Republicans unified control of the government, was failing to accomplish much at allincluding its years-long promise to repeal Obamacare.Presented with so many gifts, Democrats only question was whether they should focus on one issue or try to synthesize them all into a single, winning message. That message is being worked on, Congressman Joseph Crowley, the number-four Democrat in the House, told the Associated Press. Were doing everything we can to simplify it, but at the same time provide the meat behind it as well. So thats coming together now.It did not come togethernot then, not ever. The midterms are less than three weeks away. The Democratic Party still hasnt found its message, and the issues that many thought would feature prominently on the campaign trailimpeachment, Russia, corruption, #MeToohave largely been relegated to subtext. But somewhere along the way, Democratic candidates around the country, almost in spite of the partys dithering, have found the winning message themselves.A year ago, if you were watching cable newsand not following the candidatesthe major issues of the campaign would have seemed apparent.The Russia inquiry had ensnared some of Trumps top campaign and cabinet officials, including his former chairman, Paul Manafort, and national security adviser, Michael Flynnboth of whom are now convicted felons. And Trumps firing of FBI Director James Comey suggested a possible attempt at obstructing the Russia investigation.The presidents corruption, which he only barely seemed to hide, was underscored by the signing of a massive $1.5 trillion tax cut that will greatly benefit him and his family businesses. Trumps administration, meanwhile, has been marked by ethics scandals and taxpayer waste. Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price resigned after it was revealed he had spent more than $1 million on private flights, while EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt left the administration after spending hundreds of thousands on first-class travel.Trumps record on womenhis well-documented history of misogyny, and the many allegations of sexual misconduct against himwas also believed to be a potent election issue, especially since it seemed to be driving the unprecedented number of Democratic women running for office. Kavanaughs confirmation battle, which was fractious even before the emergence of allegations of sexual assault, only underlined the GOPs vulnerability with women.The number and breadth of these scandals created perhaps the biggest debate in Democratic circles over the past year: whether the party should pin its 2018 hopes on promising to impeach Trump. A few House Democrats support the idea, but party leaders have danced around the questiona recognition, perhaps, that the issue could hurt the party in November. While a significant majority of the partys base (and megadonor Tom Steyer) support impeachment proceedings, polls consistently show that fewer than half of all Americans do.Though cool on impeachment, the Democratic Party has repeatedly grasped for a similarly compelling, unified message. Its first attempt, unveiled in July 2017, was the well-conceived, poorly received A Better Deal, which stated that the partys mission was to help build an America in which working people know that somebody has their back. American families deserve A Better Deal so our country works for everyone again, not just the elites and special interests. The message went nowhere. Almost exactly a year later, the party rolled out the even more milquetoast For the people. Most Democratic lawmakers, if put on the spot today, likely could not explain the three main issues the message represents. This has led to some familiar Democratic anxiety. Writing in The Atlantic in August, former Democratic Congressman Steve Israel described attending a campaign fundraiser in a plush residence on the 64th floor of Trump World Tower, where most in the crowd wanted to know one thing: Whats the Democratic message?There, in a building staffed with uniformed doormen, standing on floors so fine that wed been asked to remove our shoes, the donors demanded to know why their party had no unifying theme. Or, more precisely, why wasnt the message the specific message that they wanted messaged? he continued. These questions have come up at Democratic gatherings across the country this year, from grassroots fund-raisers to posh weekend retreats.Israel argued that Democrats have it wrong that they need a national-message template in the first place. Past elections have shown that the most effective messaging is local and specific to each district. This years election seems to be proving this true, or at least Democratic candidates are campaigning as if it is. By and large, they are running on a single issue. Its not impeachment or collusion or corruption or #MeToo; its not even specific to Trump. The election, for many Democrats, is all about health care.The top three issues this year are health care, health care, health care, J.B. Poersch, the head of the Democratic Senate Majority PAC told CNN last week. Candidates across the country, from Cindy Axne in Iowa to Claire McCaskill in Missouri to Josh Harder in California are talking about their own struggles dealing with the high cost of medical care. West Virginias Joe Manchin, toe lone Democratic senator to vote to confirm Kavanaugh, is leading in the polls in his state, thanks in large part to his embrace of Obamacare, which he even made an issue during the most recent Supreme Court confirmation. Republicans are following suit, even those who voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act in 2017. Republican Martha McSally, who is running to fill Jeff Flakes Arizona Senate seat, has campaigned on protecting coverage for pre-existing conditions, despite voting for the AHCA, which would have repealed the ACA, last year. In a debate on Monday, she told voters, We cant go back to where we were before Obamacare.Trumps most significant legislative accomplishment, the $1.5 trillion corporate tax cut passed last December, has also factored into Democratic messagingpartly to highlight the hypocrisy of Republicans deficit hysteria during the Obama years, but also as another way to discuss health care. Journalists and politicians talk about the health care repeal and the Trump tax plan as two different issues, Democratic consultant Jesse Ferguson told CNN back in May. But the voters see them as ways Washington isnt looking out for them.... On both of them, its basically the same: [Republicans] have been giving tax breaks to health insurance companies, to pharmaceutical companies, and those come at the expense of people who work for a living. It means higher health care costs, eventually higher taxes, more debt for your kids, and cuts to Social Security and Medicare as you get older. After Mitch McConnell said on Tuesday that entitlement cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security are the only way to reduce the deficit, Democrats immediately sent out emails tying his statement to the tax cut.Heads up for the "Dems have no national message" people: The McConnell comments on entitlements are driving today's state Dem messaging. pic.twitter.com/OzCvauPMaxIts possible, of course, that Democrats are focusing on these issues in part because they dont have to draw more attention to the presidents scandals, which already dominate cable news. The partys fear has long been that its message, whatever it may be on a given day, would be drowned out by all things Trump. But the wall-to-wall coverage of Trump may in fact be helping Democrats. His scandals are now inevitably woven into the fabric of the 2018 campaign, such that Democratic candidates dont need to go hoarse talking about Mueller or Trumps tax returns or Stormy Daniels; voters are already motivated one way or another by those matters. Instead, Democrats can spend their time hammering the single issue that Republicans are most vulnerable onwhich also happens to be the issue that voters care the most about.	Liberal
Big cultural changes happen slowly, then all at once. This summer, the Golden State Killer, a serial rapist and murderer, was identified through the search of a third-party consumer genomics service called GEDmatch, which turned up one of his distant relatives. The hit was no fluke: Science reports that the commercialization of genomics has grown so much that around 60 percent of Americans with European heritage could be linked to a relative through the databases of companies like 23andMe. On Monday this trend entered the political sphere, with Senator Elizabeth Warren announcing, in refutation of President Donald Trumps skepticism, that her DNA shows strong evidence of Native American ancestry some six to ten generations ago.These different but related news items tell the story of DNA sciences trajectory from the academic peer-reviewed realm, to the hands of law enforcement, to the broader culture of at-home genetic testing. For years, DNA has largely been considered part of an invisible, mysterious realm that experts can dip into as needed: to identify criminals, to screen for disease. But that paradigm is giving way to a new one. Now that so much of our genetic information is stored in databases, linking us all to each other, it turns out that DNA technology is not a neutral arbiter of truth. Rather, it exerts its own influence and can be used to enhance the power imbalances that exist in this country.Since the first American was convicted using DNA evidenceTommie Lee Andrews, for rape, in Florida, 1987nearly 400,000 cases have concluded the same way, according to the FBI. Sixteen million Americans have their DNA stored in a law enforcement database. Meanwhile, 15 million people around the world have had their DNA analyzed by a direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetics company like MyHeritage or 23andMe. The way law enforcement authorities and 23andMe process DNA is different (the police only do routine tests, enough to match two samples, while DTC companies use a process called genotyping to define which genetic variants a person possesses). But these two worlds are starting to merge. In 2015, a 23andMe transparency report revealed that law enforcement agencies had requested access to the companys genetic database, but had been denied. And with the capture of the Golden State Killer, the overlap between law enforcements priorities and the fun commercial aspect of genetic testing has become clear.This is cause for concern not just because it represents a potentially vast infringement of privacy; it also could reinforce existing biases within the law enforcement system, whose use of genetic data is skewed. A 2011 study in PLOS Medicine showed that [f]orensic DNA databases are growing to mirror racial disparities in arrest practices and incarceration rates. As prison populations have grown, they have been accompanied by a dramatic shift in their racial proportions, as African Americans and Latinos have been disproportionately targeted by drug-focused policing. So, the authors observed, it follows that law enforcements DNA databases mirror those unequal incarceration rates. Now that police can use open-access genetic databases, they could potentially introduce racial bias to information that originated with unwitting consumers. A person can upload their results to a third-party service like GEDmatch, where it can lead police to their relatives. These are public concerns, and the answers are clouded by the sheer vastness of the numbers and the secrecy around law enforcements process for sifting through them.Then there are the ethical problems already at play in the DTC companies work. This July, 23andMe sold its consumers data for $300 million to GlaxoSmithKline, for the purposes of medical research. On the scientific level, this makes sense: You need a huge corpus in order to study genes across the population. But for many, the case recalled the story of Henrietta Lacks, whose own DNA was used in research without her consent. In 1951 her tissue was removed without her knowledge, and used to create an extremely profitable medical industry. She died, and her husband and five children were left in poverty, never seeing any of the benefits that Lackss cells brought to others.The other important connection between race and the DTC DNA testing kits is more subtle and psychological. There are many African American users who test themselves to connect to their history. 23andMe has encouraged them to do so, via their African American Sequencing Project. Slavery and imperialism has severed countless African Americans from their deeper origins, and there has been a therapeutic benefit to many from the material proof of their familys existence. In 2016 Cara Rose DeFabio wrote an insightful piece about black 23andMe users confronted by painful truths lying hidden in their own genes.The irony of black users data being used for medical research, then, is painful. That breaches in security have led to their genetic data becoming accessible to police via third-party services is more painful still. The intersection between race and medical technology, especially genomics, lies behind the scandal of Elizabeth Warrens own genetic disclosure. In asserting that she has Native American blood, she impliesalthough she explicitly claims otherwise in the promotional videothat Native identity has anything to do with DNA. In fact, it doesnt. Tribes are free to determine membership as they choose, but none uses DNA testing as a membership standard. As Professor Kim TallBear of IndigenousSTS put it in a statement released on Twitter, Warren focuses on and actually privileges DNA company definitions in this debate, which are ultimately settler-colonial definitions of who is Indigenous. In other words, Warren proving that she is Native with her DNA undermines the real practices of Indigenous people and imposes an oppressive standard upon them.Warren has effectively bought into a definition of Indigenousness that Trump established when he challenged her to prove her Native identity. Ironically, she has reinforced a medical model of ethnic purity reminiscent of eugenics. Many people have lamented the way that the Warren debacle has plunged our discourse on race back into the laboratory.we really needed race science to return. theres about to be craniometers at target.In the medieval and early modern periods in Europe, explanations for the difference between peoples skin color tended to rely on either the Bible or simplistic environmental theories, like the idea that the sun burns people black. But in the 19th century European thinkers turned their attention to new models of race taxonomy. Scientists in the burgeoning field of anthropology measured skulls, weighed brains, and performed other kinds of physical measurements to study nonwhite people. These practices were always implicitly colonialist, because they posited whiteness as a norm, and became explicitly so in the colonial context. And of course scientific racism of this kind would be appropriated by the Nazis in the 20th century (even though many Victorian thinkers believed Jewish people to be superior), which is symptomatic of the extreme political pliability of the medical model of differentiating race.This is where the early history of race science loops back around to our present moment. Trump has shot back at Warren, saying that he will only trust a DNA test that he personally administers. Just as in the colonial era, every test can be ruled as definitive or bunkum by whoever has the most power. There turns out to be no single truth about the information in Warrens genome: just a process of deferral to the person who can speak the loudest.Genomic science has saved countless lives, and given us miraculous insight into matters of the human body. But there is no neutral knowledge; it always has to exist in a flawed world. Now that genomics has become ubiquitous, it has taken on a very powerful politics. It has already become the territory of commerce; of law enforcement; of electioneering; of the biggest, oldest problems around race and identity in the United States. So much information on so many people is now stored in databases that we have reached a tipping point: Do we have control over DNA data, or does it have control over us? Our world is increasingly ruled by those who control such information. Our bodies are our own, but the data is not.	Liberal
 The confirmation of a Supreme Court justice never should matter as much as Brett Kavanaughs did, and thats because the Supreme Court itself shouldnt matter as much as it does today. Thats the conclusion of many legal observersme includedafter witnessing the partisan warfare in Washington over the past three months. In a New York Times op-ed last week, Pepperdine University law professor Barry P. McDonald wrote that the Kavanaugh hearings reflected the unfortunate fact that the court has become a political actor that wields excessive power in our democracy.Americans have become so used to having the Supreme Court decree the countrys policy on such vital matters as abortion, gun rights, same-sex marriage and campaign finance that they assume this is how the court is supposed to function. But that assumption is mistaken, he wrote. Our nations founders would blanch to see how different the court is today from their conception of it. Only if we can figure out how to restore the Supreme Court to its intended role can we avoid a future in which a court nomination continues to be capable of tearing our country apart. But how can we restore that intended role? How can we make the court less importantthat is, less powerful? As with many problems in Washington that have gone unsolved, the answer lies with Congress. McDonald was right that many of the nations founders would blanch to see todays Supreme Court. When the founders established our system of self-government, they didnt expend much effort on the judicial branch, he wrote. Because the political branches of governmentthose accountable to the people through electionswere expected to run things. The courts could get involved only as was necessary to resolve disputes, and even then under congressional supervision of their dockets. That certainly was the expectation of most of the delegates at the Philadelphia convention who drafted the Constitution, and those in the state ratifying conventions who favored its adoption. But it was not widely recognized that the Supreme Court was the least important of the three branches, as McDonald claimed. In fact, many prominent critics of the Constitution were convinced that the federal judiciary empowered in Article III was a budding instrument of tyranny. As a result, the design of a national court system became one of the main sticking points impacting ratificationespecially in two critical states, Virginia and New York.In Virginia, the ratification debate featured a battle between the brilliant and flamboyant orator, Patrick Henry, who bitterly opposed the Constitution, and the equally brilliant, but more methodical James Madison. Henry argued that, with slavery as a potential area of adjudication, no Virginian could hope to get a fair trial in a court removed from his home state. He reportedly told his brethren, to laughter, Theyll free your niggers! But Madison, abetted by another delegate, John Marshall, convinced his fellow Virginians that a federal court system would protect their interests, and the Constitution was ratified.In New York, ratification was even more vital, since a rejection of the plan would have cleaved the nation in two. And there was widespread sentiment against ratification.The battle between those in favor and those opposed was waged in competing newspapers. On October 18, 1787, one month after the text of the Constitution was published in the Pennsylvania Packet, an article appeared in the New York Journal signed by Brutus, addressed To the Citizens of the State of New York. Brutus would pen 16 such essays, fully five of them devoted to the judiciary.In his eleventh essay, Brutus prophetically warned, Courts of law will give the sense of every article of the constitution that may from time to time come before them. And in their decisions they will not confine themselves to any fixed or established rules, but will determine, according to what appears to them, the reason and spirit of the constitution. The opinions of the supreme court, whatever they may be, will have the force of law; because there is no power provided in the constitution that can correct their errors or control their adjudications. From this court there is no appeal. The upshot to Brutus was that for Supreme Court justices, exercise of this virtually uncontrolled power will enable them to mould the government into almost any shape they please. Nine days after Brutuss first essay appeared, an essay was published in the New York Independent Journal, addressed To the People of the State of New York, and signed by Publius. There would be 85 of these. In the seventy-eighth, Publius assured the people of New York that federal courts would turn away tyranny and be the relentless defender of the weak against the powerful. He insisted that the judiciary was the one branch of government that represented the people themselves: It is far more rational to suppose that the courts were designed to be an intermediate body between the people and the legislature, in order, among other things, to keep the latter within the limits assigned to their authority. And, as further reassurance, he noted that the judiciary would be the weakest of the three branches of government.Readers of those newspapers never knew the identity of the authors. Publius was later revealed to be Alexander Hamilton (who wrote Federalist 78), James Madison, and John Jay. Brutus has never been identified, but many believe it was Robert Yates, a delegate who left the Philadelphia convention in disgust. While the Publius essays have become known as The Federalist Papers, and are revered as trenchant commentaries on the nature of democracy and the American Constitution, Brutuss essayssometimes called the Anti-Federalist Papershave sunk into obscurity. But both were simply a series of advocacy articlesthe op-eds of the time. And, on the subject of the judiciary, Hamilton and Madison turned out to be wrong, and Brutus right.As Brutus predicted, the greatest source of the Courts current sway is judicial review, the power to declare a law void if the justices see it as being in conflict with the Constitutiona right granted to it nowhere in the Constitution.While there was a good deal of discussion in Philadelphia about Supreme Court justices participating in a council of review, there was no serious proposal to grant the courts the power to determine the constitutionality of laws passed by Congress. In the ratifying debates, it was again largely those delegates who had opposed the Constitution, such as George Mason of Virginia, and Marylands Luther Martin, who predicted that the Supreme Court would seize such a role.Thats precisely what Chief Justice John Marshall did, pretty much out of whole cloth, in 1803 in Marbury v. Madison. Although Marbury is often the lead case in Constitutional Law textbooks because it established the precedent for judicial review, scholar Leonard Levy characterized Marshalls decision as rampaging activism, and one of the worst opinions ever delivered by the Supreme Court. Still, Marbury passed seamlessly into American jurisprudence and has since become the cornerstone of judicial power.The late Justice Antonin Scalia acknowledged that Constitution grants the Supreme Court no such power. The Constitution of the United States nowhere says that the Supreme Court shall be the last word on what the Constitution means, he said in a speech in 1996. Or that the Supreme Court shall have the authority to disregard statutes enacted by the Congress of the United States on the ground that in its view they do not comport with the Constitution. It doesnt say that anywhere. We made it up.But even Scalia, the supposed anti-activist, defended it nonetheless. We made it up very sensibly, because what we said was, Look, a Constitution is a law, its a sort of super-law. This is what Marbury v. Madison said. And what the law means is the job of the courts.But is it? William Blackstone, the eighteenth-century English legal theorist and spiritual godfather to conservative judges across the English-speaking world, insisted that the courts should never have the power to overrule the legislature: Judges are not at liberty to reject [an unreasonable law] for that were to set the judicial power above that of the legislature, which would be subversive to all government. Thus, to Blackstone, separation of powers, the ultimate guarantor of liberty, demanded that the courts have no power to overturn legislative acts.Judicial activism has infuriated those on each side of the political divide. Conservatives loathe Roe v. Wade for inventing a right of privacy not written into the Fourth Amendment, and liberals feel similarly about Citizens United, which grants free-speech protections to corporate spending on political campaigns. Both liberals and conservatives, then, would seem to have an interest in returning the judiciary to the more limited role envisioned for it by the nations founders.The power exists to do this, because the Constitutions drafters anticipated the need to revise and limit the courts power. Article III, Section 2 reads (emphasis mine), In all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make. Beginning in 1789, Congress passed a number of judiciary acts to more strictly define the structure and powers of the federal court system. With the Supreme Court becoming more partisan and powerful by the year, it may be time for another. It is not as if we werent warned.	Liberal
In 2009, when Barack Obama traveled to Bristol, Virginia, for a town hall to promote the Affordable Care Act, his motorcade passed a small but turbulent protest. I was raised just outside this small Appalachian city, and even then, three years after graduating from high school, I knew it desperately needed health care reform. At the time, according to data compiled by the Urban Institute, almost a fifth of Bristols residents under age 65 had no health insuranceone of the highest rates in the state. And yet, when Obama arrived, people greeted him with signs that read SOCIALISM ISNT COOL and OBAMA: GOD DECIDES LIFE AND DEATH NOT YOU OR NATIONAL HEALTHCARE.Six months into his first term, Obama was facing this kind of opposition not just in Bristol, but nationwide, even in districts hed won the previous fall. Alarmed by conservative talk radio hosts and the constant harping of an intransigent Republican Party, many Americans believed that the ACA would rip apart the fabric of American life. No one should be surprised at the coming embrace of euthanasia, conservative columnist Cal Thomas warned.Despite the opposition, Democrats were promising that Obamacare would eventually boost their chances in elections, as Americans gradually came to see the benefits of the law: It made sure that preexisting conditions were no longer cause for discrimination, and gave people with diabetes, cancer, and other serious conditions a chance to afford health insurance. As people learn about the bill, its going to be more and more popular, Senator Chuck Schumer said in March 2010. By November, those who voted for health care will find it an asset, those who voted against it will find it a liability.What Schumer predicted never happened, at least not that year. A few months later, the GOP picked up 63 seats in the House and six in the Senate. A study published the following year estimated that at least 13 House Democrats lost their seats because of their support for the law. With the Tea Party sweeping into office, the ACA threatened to drag Democrats down.This year, the prevailing attitude toward the ACA has changed. In West Virginia, in a September campaign ad, Senator Joe Manchin, perhaps the most conservative Democrat in the Senate, blasted a paper copy of a lawsuit challenging the ACA with a rifle. In Ohio, Democratic gubernatorial nominee Rich Cordray pledged to protect the states ACA Medicaid expansion from Republican interference. And in Wisconsin, Democratic gubernatorial candidate Tony Evers has repeatedly attacked Republican incumbent Scott Walker for joining a multistate lawsuit opposing the ACA. If you want to protect the millions of Wisconsinites with a preexisting condition, drop Wisconsin from this lawsuit, Evers said in September.Its not hard to see why Democrats are now eager to align themselves with Obamacare. Last year, for the first time, Gallup reported that a majority of Americans viewed the law favorably. This past March, the Kaiser Family Foundation released another poll that put public support for the law at 54 percent, the highest its been since 2010. Nationally, confidence in the Democratic Partys ability to help solve health care is at its highest level since 2006, the last time there was a blue wave in the midterms.Republican rhetoric suggests they understand this. Its astonishing to watch a candidate like Michigans Republican attorney general, Bill Schuette, frame himself as a champion of government health care. He campaigned on repeal and replace in 2010, and as attorney general repeatedly joined lawsuits intended to strike down key provisions of the ACA. Seven years later, with about 660,000 Michigan residents enrolled in the states Medicaid expansion program, Schuette, who is running for governor, no longer opposes the plan. Similarly, in Virginia, some Republicans revolted against their party leadership in May, joining Democrats to pass a bill that expanded Medicaid under the ACA in the state. Some were coalfield Republicans, representing Virginians not far from Bristols 2009 picket.Conservatives are partly responsible for the shift. For the better part of a decade, they promised to repeal and replace Obamacare, if voters only gave them the chance. But even with a unified government, the party failedtwice. Ironically, their attacks on the ACA may actually have convinced voters of its importance. Last March, as Republicans made their first attempt to replace the ACA, only 38 percent of independents supported the law. Over the next two months, with Republicans sniping at one another on television, these swing voters grew more uneasy about the idea that they might actually lose the ACA. By May, support for the law among independents had ticked up 10 points. The ACA, once a radical proposal, had become something more familiar, perhaps even reassuring, to swing voters. And in flippable districts like Wisconsins 1st, Virginias 7th, and New Yorks 19th, that could be the difference between Democrats taking the House in November or not.Now that Obamacare is finally winning majority approval, many Democrats are pushing for something more ambitious: Medicare for All. Popularized by Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016, the plan, a version of single payer, has growing support, but the polling is more complicated. Some polls show it with roughly the same support as the ACA, others with more, a few with much less.Republicans, sensing that the numbers are mixed, have tried to capitalize. Internal Republican polling, reported by Axios in September, asserts that attacks on Medicare for All are the best-performing message with key demographics, including seniors and suburban women. Andy Barr, the Republican incumbent in Kentuckys 6th Congressional District, has claimed that his Democratic challengercharismatic former Marine pilot Amy McGrathwould end Medicare as we know it, if she were able to push Medicare for All through Congress. Similarly, as Dave Weigel of The Washington Post has reported, Representative Dave Brat of Virginia, a Tea Party favorite who unseated the powerful Eric Cantor in 2014, said in a recent ad that his Democratic challenger, Abigail Spanberger, would bankrupt Medicare as we know it.Facing these attacks, Democrats may wonder if they should simply make a public show of affirming their support for the ACA and leave it at that. But voters know, after almost a decade living with the law, that it did not create communist death panels or lines like those at the DMV. Increased government involvement in the provision of health carein this case, through subsidies for private insurance, and in some states, the expansion of Medicaid accessdoes not create shortages of doctors or overcrowded hospitals, and voters understand that now. While Medicare for All isnt yet a guaranteed winner in all the districts Democrats need to control the House, these are encouraging signs that it, like the ACA, may one day be accepted law, with a radical reputation in the rearview mirror. In the meantime, Democrats shouldnt abandon Obamacare now that it finally works for them. Instead, they should embrace the law for what it has revealed itself to be: proof that progress is possible. Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly identified Bill Schuette as Michigans governor. We regret the error. 	Liberal
