'MediaBuzz' host Howard Kurtz weighs in on Donald Trump's tweets attacking special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation.Donald Trump is so ticked off at Robert Mueller that he&apos;s calling him an Obama guy.The special counsel is actually a registered Republican.The president&apos;s eruption on Twitter yesterday fueled all kinds of media chatter about whether Mueller, who seems to be in the final phases of his Russia investigation, is about to drop some major indictment.Maybe the president is just worked up because, according to news accounts, he&apos;s spent the last several days with his lawyers, hammering out written answers to Mueller&apos;s questions. (Does this mean there won’t be a face-to-face interview? Who knows?)What I&apos;m hearing from the White House is that the president is simply sick of the long-running investigation and, after conferring with his lawyers, wants to bring it to a head.Trump has made his "witch hunt" allegations for much of the Mueller probe.And by the way, it’s hardly unprecedented to try to investigate those who are investigating you. Bill Clinton and his allies mounted a sustained campaign to demonize Ken Starr.But Trump&apos;s attacks yesterday may be his harshest yet."The inner workings of the Mueller investigation are a total mess," Trump tweeted. "They have found no collusion and have gone absolutely nuts. They are screaming and shouting at people, horribly threatening them to come up with the answers they want."They are a disgrace to our Nation and don&apos;t care how many lives the [sic] ruin. These are Angry People, including the highly conflicted Bob Mueller, who worked for Obama for 8 years. They won&apos;t even look at all of the bad acts and crimes on the other side. A TOTAL WITCH HUNT LIKE NO OTHER IN AMERICAN HISTORY!"The all-caps was just for emphasis.The president can certainly argue that Mueller, even with his charges against Paul Manafort, Rick Gates, Michael Flynn and others, has come up with no evidence of collusion with Russia.But keep in mind that it was Trump&apos;s own appointee, Rod Rosenstein, who named Mueller as special counsel, and the deputy attorney general says he&apos;s doing a good job.What&apos;s more, it was George W. Bush who tapped Mueller as FBI director. Obama just let him finish out his 10-year term, and tacked on an additional two years. So to suggest that Mueller is some kind of Obama loyalist is just wrong.One aspect that the pundits are focusing on is that the latest attack on Mueller comes after the president replaced Jeff Sessions with Matt Whitaker, who has a history of criticizing the special counsel. But whether the acting attorney general will take any steps to curtail the probe remains to be seen.By outward appearances, Mueller seems to be down to third-level players. The Wall Street Journal reports that he is investigating whether veteran GOP operative Roger Stone tried to intimidate a witness who is contradicting his insistence he had no pipeline to WikiLeaks on the hacked Democratic emails. In emails to his former friend, Randy Credico, the Journal says, Stone threatened to "sue the f---" out of him and called Credico "a loser a liar and a rat." But this is pretty small potatoes.The president also weighed in on the press yesterday, as he is wont to do. I reported yesterday on a spate of stories (The Washington Post, L.A. Times, Politico) about how Trump has been angry, furious and lashing out since the midterms as he mulls another White House shakeup.Insiders tell me that many of the leaks likely emanate from places such as the Homeland Security Department and National Security Council, where people&apos;s jobs are threatened (such as Kirstjen Nielsen and deputy NSC director Mira Ricardel, who&apos;s being transferred after Melania Trump called for her firing). The president often discusses job changes with advisers and doesn&apos;t mind the rumors that float around and hit the press.Trump tweeted yesterday: "The White House is running very smoothly and the results for our Nation are obviously very good. We are the envy of the world. But anytime I even think about making changes, the FAKE NEWS MEDIA goes crazy, always seeking to make us look as bad as possible! Very dishonest!"I mean, why would anyone think he&apos;s angry?But the president does have a point that routine personnel moves after an election are getting the media’s "chaos" treatment — even if "running very smoothly" is not the most apt description of this White House.	Conservative
'MediaBuzz' host Howard Kurtz weighs in on the press coverage of recent staff shakeups at the White House and leaks by those surrounding Trump that portray him as angry and lashing out.It&apos;s like we&apos;re back in the spring of 2017: Looming staff shakeups! The chief of staff may be out! The White House is in chaos. Nobody can rein in Donald Trump!And once again, those surrounding Trump are leaking like crazy.But a bit of perspective here: Presidents usually shake up their teams after midterm elections — especially losing midterm elections — and some officials naturally decide it&apos;s time to move on.With the exception of the firing of Jeff Sessions — given the controversial pick of his anti-Mueller interim replacement, Matt Whitaker — I don&apos;t know why the press needs to treat every rumor of a White House or Cabinet change as the coming of the apocalypse.But the planned staff moves are morphing into a larger narrative of an angry president lashing out and blowing off some of his duties while his staff is steaming, according to reports in The Washington Post, Los Angeles Times and Politico.There&apos;s not much question that Trump has seemed more aggressive and aggrieved since the Democrats captured the House (their haul is now up to 33 seats and counting). Even Melania has gotten in on the shakeup action.Insiders tell me the president is unhappy, disappointed in some top aides, and ready to make changes. He has also, in my view, made some missteps in the process.But does this add up to a portrait of an out-of-control leader?When The Washington Post quotes historian Doug Brinkley as saying "he&apos;s just a bull carrying his own china shop with him," is that bull?The president felt compelled to hit back in the face of these stories, tweeting this morning: "The White House is running very smoothly and the results for our Nation are obviously very good. We are the envy of the world. But anytime I even think about making changes, the FAKE NEWS MEDIA goes crazy, always seeking to make us look as bad as possible! Very dishonest!"The Post piece on "five days of fury" ranges from a testy Trump call with Theresa May to skipping a planned World War I remembrance at a cemetery in France. "Trump quickly grew infuriated by a torrent of tweets and media coverage suggesting that the president was afraid of the rain and did not respect veterans ... "The president also was angry and resentful over French President Emmanuel Macron&apos;s public rebuke of rising nationalism, which Trump considered a personal attack."It also ranges from Trump tweeting about "FRAUD" in the Florida elections to the revoking of Jim Acosta&apos;s credentials to the president telling CNN reporter Abby Phillip that she asks "stupid questions."The L.A. Times has a similar story about a "brooding" Trump: "The president has lashed out at several aides, from junior press assistants to senior officials. &apos;He&apos;s furious,&apos; said one administration official. &apos;Most staffers are trying to avoid him.&apos;"Politico, like the other outlets, deals with possible personnel moves, zeroing in on "bottled-up hostility" and "a fresh round of backbiting" among the staff.The president has told others he wants to dump Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security chief, which has been obvious as he has blamed her for problems at the border.And he is once again said to be weighing the departure of John Kelly (in favor of Mike Pence&apos;s top aide Nick Ayers). We have been through endless rounds of chatter about Kelly, which seemed to end when the president announced he&apos;s staying through 2020. So it&apos;s not clear whether this will blow over.But then came what is truly a bizarre spectacle. Melania Trump took on deputy national security adviser Mira Ricardel with this public statement: "It is the position of the Office of the First Lady that she no longer deserves the honor of serving in this White House." (The Wall Street Journal reported that Ricardel was gone, then retracted it, and the situation is now unclear.)Many first ladies, including Nancy Reagan and Hillary Clinton, have obviously had a strong influence on their husband and gotten staffers fired. But to put out a statement is beyond unusual, prompting speculation that Melania was trying to accomplish privately what she failed to do behind the scenes.So it&apos;s a tumultuous time for the president, no question. But keep in mind that those leaking all these anecdotes to journalists may have their own agendas.	Conservative
'MediaBuzz' host Howard Kurtz weighs in on why CNN's lawsuit against Trump is more about a PR battle than the law.Much of the news business is rushing to embrace CNN for taking legal action against President Trump.The suit casts CNN President Jeff Zucker as a champion of press freedom, standing up to a president who is accused of violating the First Amendment.But by taking the president to court, CNN also reinforces its image among millions of Trump supporters as part of the opposition. And the suit isn&apos;t going to get Jim Acosta&apos;s credentials restored any time soon, if at all.Bob Woodward said at a conference that CNN was taking Trump&apos;s "bait," and he&apos;s right. But the network, in choosing to revive the Acosta controversy that was starting to die down, clearly likes the narrative."The First Amendment grants the right of all journalists to hold those in power accountable and ask tough questions," Zucker said in a statement.But Sarah Sanders dismissed the lawsuit as "more grandstanding by CNN," noting that the White House has credentialed nearly 50 other staffers from the network. She said Trump had already answered two of Acosta&apos;s questions at a presser last week before the reporter "physically refused to surrender a White House microphone to an intern, so that other reporters might ask their questions." And that, Sanders said, wasn&apos;t the first time that Acosta had acted "inappropriately." (When Trump held his first presser last year, Acosta tried to interrupt by shouting questions after the president-elect had dissed CNN, and he refused to call on the correspondent.)But Sanders notably declined to repeat her earlier charge that Acosta was suspended because he had "laid hands" on the White House intern sent to take his mic. The CNN suit calls that false, and video of the episode shows only glancing contact.The network is seeking an injunction because "every day that his pass has been revoked is a First Amendment violation and it&apos;s irreparable harm in the words of the law," CNN lawyer Ted Boutros said on its air.The suit is likely to drag on for months and is more about the high-stakes PR war between the two sides than resolving constitutional issues.By going to court, CNN reframes the fight and deflects attention from Acosta&apos;s conduct to lofty principles. Even some of his White House press colleagues believe Acosta is a showman who takes an activist&apos;s approach to the job — he was lecturing Trump on the migrant caravan — and appeared rude when he kept on talking and interrupting. He&apos;s hardly the best poster boy for the First Amendment.The president, who knew what he was getting when he called on Acosta, also gets use the correspondent and his network as a whipping boy in his assault on so-called "fake news." In fact, the lawsuit lists his previous clashes with Acosta, his criticism of CNN (including the famous wrestling video) and Trump&apos;s dismissal of CNN host Don Lemon as the "dumbest" guy on television.Each side, in other words, is playing to its base.Things have gotten rather personal between Zucker, who ran NBC when Trump was doing "The Apprentice," and the president, who clearly feels betrayed by the abundance of negative coverage on Zucker’s network. The fact that Zucker was a guest at Trump&apos;s wedding to Melania feels like ancient history.I suppose it&apos;s possible that this suit will break new constitutional ground, but the great likelihood is that it will drag on for many months and do nothing to help Acosta. CNN has other White House reporters, but news organizations have an understandable conviction that no politician should be able to dictate who covers him.But the risk for CNN, beyond big legal fees — the team includes Ted Olson — is that the network may be painting itself as part of the resistance.Perhaps both sides are getting what they want. CNN has the backing of the White House Correspondents Association. Trump has the backing of millions of people who believe he&apos;s being treated terribly by the MSM. And while Jim Acosta may not have his hard pass, he&apos;s become famous. Maybe CNN should just let him host an opinion show since he&apos;s got so many of them.	Conservative
'MediaBuzz' host Howard Kurtz weighs in on why no matter what President Trump does, or doesn't do, he still ends up as the top story dominating the news cycle.The press just can&apos;t quit Donald Trump.No matter what he does — or doesn&apos;t do — he&apos;s the story. The biggest story. Often the only story.And that story, the continuous story, inevitably involves we the media. The president excels at dragging the news business into the center of every controversy, and its members all too often fall into the trap.Even the recent chatter about whether media outlets should boycott White House press briefings puts them in a potential confrontation with Trump, which is just the way he likes it.The president was in Paris over the weekend, for the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, and this Washington Post story yesterday encapsulates the addictive nature of the coverage.The lead notes that "on a trip to Europe, the president hardly said a word — and he still managed to outrage at almost every turn."But is that alleged outrage fanned by the media? And if Trump generates outrage whether he speaks or not, isn&apos;t that a telling statement?Other than one critical tweet about Emmanuel Macron (based on an inaccurate newspaper story, the Post notes), "Trump didn&apos;t throw any sharp elbows at his peers here. It was still all about him."Translation: The media still made it all about him.The newspaper&apos;s take is that "it was because of the images. He looked uncomfortable and listless in a bilateral meeting with Macron, whose sinewy energy stood in stark contrast to Trump&apos;s downbeat expression as the French leader patted him on the thigh."We can&apos;t have that!Trump also skipped a scheduled tour of a military cemetery for Americans, blaming the rain. And by the way, that was a legitimate issue to cover, as it felt like a snub by a president who had gone to France in part to honor the sacrifices made by our soldiers.At an event at the Arc de Triomphe, Stone sat "stone-faced as Macron railed against the rise of nationalism — a rebuke of Trump&apos;s professed worldview. The overall takeaway to many was a president turning away from the world, a man occupying the office of the leader of the free world who appeared withdrawn and unenthusiastic on the global stage."And the first quote was a tweet by former Obama aide David Axelrod, who said, "America First feels like America Alone."The president made huge news on previous foreign trips by getting into confrontations with other western leaders. But on a trip where he largely avoided public conflict, for whatever reason, Trump still drew negative coverage.(He offered a different take on Twitter: "Just returned from France where much was accomplished in my meetings with World Leaders. Never easy bringing up the fact that the U.S. must be treated fairly, which it hasn&apos;t, on both Military and Trade.")Meanwhile, CNN filed suit this morning to force the White House to restore Jim Acosta&apos;s credentials. The Trump team suspended the credentials last week after a dustup in which he refused to stop asking the president questions or give up the microphone.New York Times media columnist Jim Rutenberg weighed in yesterday on the fallout. To his credit, Rutenberg pointed out that Acosta "is a somewhat polarizing figure, viewed by some of his press corps colleagues as a showboat."The White House suspended Acosta&apos;s credentials after a dustup in which he refused to stop asking Trump questions or give up the microphone. To his credit, Rutenberg pointed out that Acosta "is a somewhat polarizing figure, viewed by some of his press corps colleagues as a showboat."After noting that CNN President Jeff Zucker told his producers not to play up the Acosta punishment, the column said that "CNN would not be led by the nose into giving significant airtime to another Trump attack on the news media ..."Reporters could stage a group protest. But that would make them look like they&apos;re at war with the president, just as he always says they are. Or they could do nothing and effectively &apos;submit to his authority to determine who gets to hold him accountable,&apos;" as GOP strategist and fierce Trump critic Steve Schmidt put it.It&apos;s a no-win situation. And here&apos;s why a boycott wouldn&apos;t work:— Much of the country would turn on the press for not doing its job. Refusing to show up at briefings is a very tough sell.— Trump would pound away at the media, saying they have moved into the opposition camp.— Journalists would be seen as hopelessly self-absorbed if they surrendered the chance to question the White House press secretary on the public&apos;s behalf.— And most important of all, it would never happen. There&apos;s no way all the disparate media outlets, with their varying interests, would agree to a joint boycott, and the show would go on.This is actually somewhat symbolic since Sarah Huckabee Sanders is now briefing only rarely as her boss takes more and more questions from reporters.But it highlights once again that most media debates these days are about Donald Trump — and the media.	Conservative
Howard Kurtz weighs in on the uproar fueled by President Trump naming a loyalist as acting Attorney General.It was, for once, a predictable bombshell.And met by equally predictable waves of media outrage.Was there anyone in America, paying the slightest bit of attention, who didn&apos;t know that President Trump was going to fire Jeff Sessions after the midterms?I mean, the president has practically been announcing it with a bullhorn.Sure, we didn&apos;t know it was going to happen the day after the Democrats won control of the House (although George W. Bush ousted Don Rumsfeld the day after an even more disastrous election).But come on. Trump didn&apos;t even bother to hide the motive.He has been angry at his attorney general for a year and a half for recusing himself from the Russia investigation.In truth, Sessions had no choice. As a senator, he was a campaign surrogate for Trump and wound up being questioned on the Hill over his own contacts with Russian officials.But Trump viewed this as a personal betrayal, and said so, repeatedly. He said it on Twitter. He said it in an interview with The New York Times. He said it in encounters with reporters.He called Sessions weak and beleaguered. He insisted the Justice Department should be investigating Democrats. Someone even leaked word that Trump privately called his own appointee Mr. Magoo.It was humiliating, but Sessions hung in there, doing his job, although he knew his days were numbered. He said right there in his resignation letter that he was quitting at the president&apos;s request.But what really fueled the media’s "crisis" coverage was Trump&apos;s choice for acting attorney general. It wasn&apos;t Sessions&apos; deputy, Rod Rosenstein, the man who appointed Robert Mueller. It was Sessions&apos; chief of staff, Matt Whitaker.Whitaker is a former prosecutor, as well as a conservative activist, but he is obscure. He is a Trump loyalist, once described as the president&apos;s "eyes and ears" at DOJ.What&apos;s more, as a CNN contributor and at other times, he has trashed the Mueller investigation that he will now be overseeing. He&apos;s suggesting that Justice could curtail the special counsel&apos;s probe by cutting his funding."The truth is there was no collusion with the Russians and the Trump campaign," Whitaker once said. As for the left, "the last thing they want right now is for the truth to come out, and for the fact that there&apos;s not a single piece of evidence that demonstrates that the Trump campaign had any illegal or any improper relationships with the Russians. It&apos;s that simple."So Whitaker has, to put it mildly, a rather dim view of the investigation. And his associates are telling reporters he has no intention of recusing himself. Of course not — that&apos;s why Trump wants him.So it&apos;s a big deal that oversight of the Russia probe is moving from Rosenstein, who likes the job Mueller is doing, to a man who&apos;s been so critical of the investigation. And criticism from House Democrats who&apos;ll soon be in a position to scrutinize these matters is fueling the story.But a couple of cautionary notes. Whitaker hasn&apos;t done anything to impede the investigation since his appointment was announced. And it&apos;s possible, if only as a matter of political strategy, that he may not.It&apos;s also possible, amid reports that Mueller is writing his report, that his prosecutors haven&apos;t found any evidence of collusion, or obstruction, and he&apos;ll be wrapping up soon.Sessions has been toast for a long time. Whitaker could do something to cause a crisis, at least until a permanent AG (Chris Christie?) is named.But unless and until there&apos;s an effort to rein in Mueller, the media might avoid keeping this cranked up to an 11.	Conservative
CNN reporter chose to debate President Trump about the migrant caravan at the news conference. Howard Kurtz provides insight on 'Special Report.'There was no talk of a thumpin’ or a shellacking, as when George W. Bush or Barack Obama lost Congress.No, Donald Trump says an election in which his party lost the House was actually a good night.It was “such a very Big Win,” he tweeted, “and all under the pressure of a Nasty and Hostile Media!”And: “To any of the pundits or talking heads that do not give us proper credit for this great Midterm Election, just remember two words - FAKE NEWS!”It’s not fake when news organizations offer a different election analysis. But the press corps didn’t help itself Wednesday with behavior that sometimes bordered on obnoxious.There are a number of things that the president can say about the midterms. He helped the Republicans increase their margin in the Senate, and undoubtedly helped individual Senate and gubernatorial candidates. By nationalizing the election, he might have blunted what could have been a Democratic wave — say, winning 40-plus seats instead of at least 27 — in the House.At a combative news conference Wednesday, Trump said that what happened at the polls Tuesday was “very close to a complete victory” — despite counter-campaigning by Barack Obama and Oprah Winfrey.By ending one-party government in Washington, I think it’s fair to say that voters wanted to put a check and balance on the Trump presidency, but not deliver a repudiation. At the same time, the outcome might have been different were the Republicans not blessed with such a favorable Senate map.There was some obvious partisanship in the media coverage. The lead story in National Review was “Republicans Hold the Senate,” though that rather predictable outcome is less important than Dems flipping the House. (A later update made the site’s lead “Split Decision.”)The Huffington Post posted this: “U.S. Election Rules Doomed Democrats’ Chances of Taking the Senate.”It seems that “the disproportionate representation of small states is part of the body’s original design. But that advantage, which benefits white voters, has become more lopsided than the framers of the Constitution likely ever imagined.” So they’re back to saying states like North Dakota and Montana shouldn’t have two senators.I’ll leave it to readers to decide whether the New York Times&apos; lead news story was tilted in a certain direction:The outcome was a “forceful rebuke” of Trump, and voters in urban and suburban districts “have recoiled from the president’s demagoguery on race. ...“What was effectively a referendum on Mr. Trump’s incendiary conduct and hard-right nationalism may make some of the party’s lawmakers uneasy about linking themselves to a president who ended the campaign showering audiences with a blizzard of mistruths, conspiracy theories and invective about immigrants.”By contrast, Dan Balz, the Washington Post’s dean of political reporters, found there was a red wall:“All year long, Democrats talked optimistically about a blue wave that they believed was building around the country, one powerful enough to flip control of the House and even, against the odds, put the Senate in play as well. But a somewhat different reality began to set in early in the evening as the familiar contours of red and blue America powerfully reasserted themselves.”Those who say nothing really changes now for the president are just engaging in spin. But what happens next is a more complicated question than it might seem.Trump, a former Democrat, could of course choose to find some common ground with Nancy Pelosi, who may want to demonstrate that her party can help govern rather than just attack the president.In fact, he gave the once-and-future-speaker a shout-out: “I give her a great deal of credit for what she’s done and what she’s accomplished.”Trump said he’ll now have “a much easier path” than if the GOP had held the House by a couple of seats, because Democrats will come to him with plans “and we’ll negotiate it. ... It really could be a beautiful, bipartisan type of situation,” and “much less gridlock.”Perhaps. We’ll have to see what happens, as POTUS likes to say. And if there’s a total impasse, Trump said, “government comes to a halt and I would blame them.”Nor was it a good sign when Trump tweeted that if the Democrats “think they are going to waste Taxpayer Money investigate us,” then “we will likewise be forced to consider investigating them for all of the leaks of Classified Information, and much else, at the Senate level. Two can play that game!”Finally, Trump’s complaints about the media came into sharp relief when he called on his nemesis, Jim Acosta. CNN’s White House correspondent debated the president about the caravan — “It was not an invasion” — and questioned whether Trump was demonizing immigrants.After a couple of exchanges, Acosta tried to ask another question. Trump said he was moving on, and the reporter actually refused to give up the microphone when an aide tried to take it.“That’s enough, put down the mic,” Trump said. “I tell you what, CNN should be ashamed of itself having you working for them. You are a rude, terrible person, you shouldn’t be working for CNN. You’re a very rude person, the way you treat Sarah Huckabee is horrible.”When Trump called on NBC’s Peter Alexander, who defended Acosta -- “I’m not a big fan of yours, either,” the president said — Acosta yelled a question about pipe bombs.“When you report fake news,” Trump said, “you are the enemy of the people.”Acosta seems to resort to grandstanding and interruption in most of his interactions with Trump. And the White House late yesterday temporarily suspended his credentials, claiming he had been "placing his hands on a young woman just trying to do her job as a White House intern."This was the aide asked to take his mike, and there was only incidental physical contact. The administration would have had a stronger case saying Acosta wasn&apos;t following the rules. By yanking his hard pass, the Trump team shifted the spotlight back to its treatment of the press and turned Acosta into a journalistic martyr.	Conservative
The White House tells Fox News that President Trump is willing to work across the aisle with the new Democratic majority in the House of Representatives.It was 9:31 in the east when Fox News, President Trump&apos;s favorite network, projected the outcome he wanted least: the Democrats would take control of the House.And that changes everything.It wasn&apos;t quite a blue wave, but enough districts turned blue to end the Republicans&apos; total control of Washington, marking a turning point in the Trump presidency.And the media will cast Tuesday&apos;s outcome as a rejection of Trumpism, which will be the subject of endless cable segments and op-ed arguments.Trump was always going to own the midterm results, win or lose. The media were going to cast it as a referendum on his presidency regardless, and he embraced that notion, saying he was practically on the ballot, nationalizing the contests around such issues as immigration and spending the final weeks in a blitz of interviews and campaign rallies.It had been a surprisingly low-key evening until the Fox call, with no major upsets, other than Beto O&apos;Rourke staying even with Ted Cruz before falling short. Even James Carville said his party was not in for as good a night as he had hoped. But the Democrats gradually picked up one House seat after another of the 23 they needed to take control. It would be nearly an hour until MSNBC would join in projecting a Republican loss of House control.The previously powerless Democrats now wield at least some power in the nation’s capital, which could mean two years of gridlock, unless the president and opposition party decide it&apos;s in their self-interest to cooperate on certain issues.No amount of spin can soften the blow of losing the House to the Democrats. Indeed, there were reports that White House officials had told the president to brace himself for a very tough night. And even in the 8 p.m. hour, with many races too close or too early to call, some pundits were already talking about how Nancy Pelosi&apos;s troops could make life difficult for the administration with a blizzard of investigations and subpoenas.The Republicans held the Senate, and Trump was poised to take credit, though that was practically pre-ordained, given a map that mainly featured Democrats trying to hang on in red states, as North Dakota&apos;s Heidi Heitkamp failed to do.But politics is a game of expectations, and all the media chatter about a blue tsunami came to seem premature. That may be because political races always tighten at the end, and in part because Trump succeeded in mobilizing his conservative base.The president&apos;s tactics — especially his focus on immigration, the caravan and birthright citizenship — were widely denounced by the media in the final stretch. Trump was accused in news stories of using fear-mongering and racially charged divisiveness to rile up his supporters. While the president&apos;s rhetoric did get uncomfortably hot at times, and several networks rejected an immigration ad as racist, many in the media also fueled the divisiveness with attacks on the president.But when the media sages said the president should tout the booming economy, he countered that the subject was unexciting when people were doing well and focused on the more emotional subject of illegal immigration.What happened to Trump in his first midterm is hardly unique. Barack Obama suffered the same fate in 2010 and 2014, and George W. Bush in 2006. Both took office with full party control of Congress and both lost it.Donald Trump remains the dominant figure in American politics. But for the first time since the early-morning hours of Nov. 9, 2016, the Democrats have something to cheer about.	Conservative
'MediaBuzz' host Howard Kurtz weighs in on why, if Donald Trump is such a terrible president, the Democrats aren't the overwhelming favorites in the midterm elections.As the media are awash in predictions and prognostications about today&apos;s elections, one question I find fascinating is this:Why haven&apos;t the Democrats run away with this thing?After all, if Donald Trump is as terrible a president as the press has been proclaiming for nearly two years, the opposition party should be riding a wave of revulsion to victory.The Dems are favored to win the 23 seats needed to win the House, and some pundits are saying they&apos;ll take considerably more, but the fact that even the minimum outcome is in doubt shows a far more competitive election than was forecast a month or two ago.So perhaps Trump, and the Republican candidates following his lead, are better at electoral politics than the wise guys thought. And you can&apos;t blame it all on "fear-mongering," even though the president has chosen to close on immigration rather than the booming economy.There is no question that these midterms are largely about Trump, and that he has quite consciously ensured that his name is virtually, though not literally, on the ballot.A provocative theory comes from Ross Douthat, the conservative New York Times columnist and a sharp Trump critic. He cites the often-vast "gulf" between "the hysteria of liberals who write about politics for a living and the relative calm of Democrats who practice it."He says that on liberal Twitter, democracy itself hangs in the balance "and every Trump provocation a potential Reichstag fire. But on the campaign trail, with some exceptions and variations, Democrats are being upbeat and talking about health care and taxes and various ambitious policy ideas, as though this is still America and not Weimar, a normal time and not a terrifying one."Maybe the liberal pundits are saying things that the politicians can&apos;t, but Douthat argues the Democrats are very lucky.If Trump had governed like a "generic Republican," he&apos;d be more popular and the Democrats would be toast. And if Trump had followed through on the populist promises of 2016, Douthat says, "this strategy could have easily cut the knees out from under the Democrats&apos; strongest appeal, their more middle-class-friendly economic agenda, and highlighted their biggest liability, which is the way the party&apos;s base is pulling liberalism way left of the middle on issues of race and culture and identity."In this view, Trump drives liberals crazy with his culture war and Twitter crusades, but this in turn lets the Democrats off the hook.I&apos;d be cautious about even the smart analysts who say if only Trump had done this or that, he&apos;d be in a stronger position. Who among them thought Trump would ever win the White House? He has a gut feeling about elections, and while it&apos;s fine to criticize his tone, language and choice of subjects, he may well be right that warning about illegal immigration gets more Republicans to the polls than boasting about last year&apos;s tax cut.A more vociferous Never-Trumper, NYT conservative Bret Stephens, says the president may have outwitted the opposition by pounding away at the caravan:"To which the Democratic response is — what, exactly?"If it’s &apos;compassion,&apos; it’s a non-answer. If it&apos;s to abolish ICE, it&apos;s a dereliction of responsibility for governance. If it&apos;s to open the border, it is an honest form of political suicide. If it&apos;s more trade and foreign aid for Central America, that&apos;s a solution for the too-long term."The truth is that there is no easy fix to the challenge of the caravan, which is why Trump was so clever to make the issue his own and Democrats have been so remiss in letting him have it. The secret of Trump&apos;s politics is to mix fear and confidence — the threat of disaster and the promise of protection — like salt and sugar, simultaneously stimulating and satisfying an insatiable appetite."Stephens goes on to attack Trump as a demagogue. But whose fault is it if the Democrats don’t have an effective response?If Nancy Pelosi&apos;s party wins the House, the media verdict will be that the Democrats pursued the right strategy and that Trump&apos;s immigration-based appeal failed. If Pelosi and company fall short, the media will give them partial blame, but will largely conclude that (as a Washington Post news story put it yesterday) "running a campaign built on blunt, race-based attacks on immigrants and minorities will have been validated."But I come back to my original question: If Trump is as terrible as many pundits say, why aren&apos;t the Democrats running away with the election?	Conservative
