Rep.-elect Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez got into a Twitter spat with former Gov. Mike Huckabee — and then went after his daughter.The former Arkansas governor was mocking the 28-year-old democratic socialist for comparing her election this November to the 1969 Moon landing.“Big difference. Moon landing was LUNAR, not LOONEY; Moon landing done by ppl who knew what they were doing…those who elected someone who thought there were 3 branches of Congress did NOT,” he wrote, alluding to one of many miscues on basic civics that the rising Democratic star has made in recent months.Both barrels came firing back.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez started by saying that her platform would require “a level of ambition + innovation on the scale of the moon landing. We’ve been done it before, and can do it again.”Then she got personal.“Leave the false statements to Sarah Huckabee. She’s much better at it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said, going on to call the White House press secretary’s father a political has-been.“Also, you haven’t been a Governor of any state for 10+ years now,” she concluded.She then complained later in the Twitter thread of being ganged up on.“Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universe Have ALL gone after me, just to get lit up,” she wrote.“I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?” she asked.Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universeHave ALL gone after me, just to get lit up.I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?	Conservative
House Republicans on Monday said they have filed a bill that would keep the government running through Dec. 21 and push off an ongoing shutdown battle for a few weeks, as Washington presses pause on official business to mourn the death of former President George H.W. Bush.Congress has already passed legislation to fund about three-quarters of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget next year. That includes funding for the defense, labor, health, and veterans affairs departments.But if lawmakers don’t act before midnight Friday, funding for a number of other departments, such as the departments of commerce, justice, and homeland security, will lapse.The key hang-up is money for President Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall in the homeland security funding bill.Mr. Trump is pushing for $5 billion for the wall, which is in line what the House provided in its DHS funding bill.Democrats say he should accept the $1.6 billion for border security senators included in their 2019 DHS bill.Even still, Mr. Trump indicated over the weekend that he’d likely sign a stopgap extension to give lawmakers more time to negotiate in light of Mr. Bush’s death.	Conservative
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Monday that plans were in the works to scrap subsidies for electric cars and other renewable energy items, Reuters reported.Mr. Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council, said the subsidies could end as soon as 2020. It is part of the administration’s response to General Motors closing plants and cutting jobs in the U.S.President Trump last week threatened to end  electric car subsidies after GM announced five plant closings — four in the U.S. and one in Canada — as it cuts domestic production of sedans.The punishment would have limited impact on GM, however, because the automaker is on pace to sell too many electric cars to qualify for subsidies.Mr. Kudlow said the rollback of subsidies would also include “renewables.”	Conservative
Incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called on Congress Monday to raise salaries for staffers on Capitol Hill, saying that interns and aides are severely underpaid.The New York Democrat took to Twitter to describe eating at a “dive spot” in D.C. where several employees were also working in congressional offices.“It is unjust for Congress to budget a living wage for ourselves, yet rely on unpaid interns and underpaid overworked staff just [because] Republicans want to make a statement about ‘fiscal responsibility,’” she wrote.She also demanded that Republicans pay their staffers more by either cutting their staff or support raising the Members’ Representational Allowance, where the funds for staff salaries is pulled.	Conservative
President Trump’s top economic adviser said Monday he expects rapid action from China on trade concessions to the U.S., including big tariff reductions — maybe to zero — on automobiles.“They put stuff on the table that we have not seen before,” said Larry Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council.He said the commitments by Beijing include cutting tariffs and addressing theft of intellectual property that have topped Mr. Trump’s list of demands.“This is just an enormous, enormous event,” Mr. Kudlow told reports on a conference call.The breakthrough in trade talks included commitments from China for “immediate” action, he said.“So we’ll see,” Mr. Kudlow said. “But I can tell you I’ve never seen that immediately commitment before.”Mr. Kudlow said that the discussions he participated in lead him to believe Beijing would reduce the tariffs on autos from 40 percent to zero.The optimism at the White House stemmed from a truce in the trade war agreed to at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.The U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lower tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.	Conservative
Conservative author Jerome Corsi on Monday filed a criminal and ethics complaint against special counsel Robert Mueller alleging prosecutorial misconduct in the Russia investigation.The 78-page complaint alleges that Mr. Corsi “has been criminally threatened and coerced to tell a lie and call it the truth.”Peter Carr, a spokesman for the special counsel’s office, declined to comment.The complaint was filed to multiple government officials, including acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Jessie K. Liu, Justice Department inspector General Micheal Horowitz and the Bar Disciplinary Counsel.Mr. Corsi’s complaint alleges special counsel prosecutors pressured him to lie. He said Mueller’s team demanded he say he worked on behalf of the Trump campaign as a liaison to longtime political operative Roger Stone and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to coordinate the release of the hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign during the 2016 election.“Dr. Corsi has been threatened with immediate indictment by Mueller’s prosecutorial staff unless he testifies falsely against Roger Stone and/or President Donald Trump and his presidential campaign, among other false testimony,” wrote Mr. Corsi’s attorney Larry Klayman.According to the complaint, Mueller’s team is “knowingly and deceitfully threatening to charge Dr. Corsi with an alleged false statement,” unless he makes false statements about members of the Trump campaign and Mr. Stone.The special counsel’s office has been interested in Mr. Stone’s connections to Mr. Assange, and whether they conspired to leak the emails in an effort to hurt the Clinton campaign.Mr. Klayman, who founded conservative watchdog groups Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch, insists that Mr. Corsi had no advanced knowledge of WikiLeaks’ publishing of hacked DNC emails. Instead, Mr. Klayman contends, his client pieced it together by noticing emails by Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta were missing in the first batch of leaked emails and he assumed it would be in a second data dump.“Employing his professional skills and considerable experience as an analyst and investigative journalist, Dr. Corsi logically concluded that Wikileaks would release Podesta’s emails soon.”In an interview Monday with Newsmax, Mr. Klayman vowed that he will take the case to the Supreme Court, challenging  Mr. Mueller’s authority to investigate alleged ties between Russia and the Trump campaign.“We will challenge Mueller’s constitutional mandate to proceed, which is what the president should have been doing all these months. But we’ll do it,” he said. 	Conservative
The House is not expected to hold any votes for the rest of the week, GOP leaders announced Monday, as Washington turns its attention to the memorial services for former President George H.W. Bush.He will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.A memorial service at Washington National Cathedral is also scheduled to take place Wednesday, to be followed by a service and burial in Texas on Thursday.The Senate is scheduled to gavel in on Monday afternoon, but no votes are expected to be held until at least Wednesday.President Trump announced that Wednesday will be a national day of mourning. Federal employees are excused from work.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer are also asking the White House to postpone a meeting they were to have with Mr. Trump on Tuesday in light of the events surrounding Mr. Bush’s funeral, according to a Democratic aide.Lawmakers are facing an end-of-week deadline to pass new 2019 spending bills and avert a partial shutdown of the federal government.Congress has already passed — and Mr. Trump has signed — legislation to fund roughly 70 percent to 75 percent of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget for 2019.That means regardless of what happens this week, agencies such as the Pentagon, Health and Human Services, and Veterans Affairs are fully funded through September.But funding for the outstanding departments — which include the IRS, NASA and Homeland Security — will lapse if Congress doesn’t act by midnight Friday.Federal employees deemed “essential,” such as Border Patrol agents, would still report to work, though they could face delays in their pay. Others could be furloughed.Negotiators have reported progress on six of the remaining seven individual bills, but are still battling over funding for Mr. Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall.Mr. Trump says he wants $5 billion for wall money — in line with what House appropriators have written into their DHS funding bill — and has indicated that he could try to orchestrate a partial shutdown if he doesn’t get it.Democrats say he needs to accept the $1.6 billion for border security that senators include in their 2019 DHS spending bill.Lawmakers are now talking about approving another stopgap funding bill to keep the rest of the government running past Friday, which would give them more time to negotiate.If no members object, the House and Senate can bypass procedural hurdles to speed measures through.An aide said that while House Democrats favor a one-week stopgap bill, they would likely not object to passing a two-week bill via unanimous consent.Though Mr. Trump has been firm in his demands for $5 billion in wall money, he indicated over the weekend he’d be open to delaying the shutdown showdown beyond this week in light of Mr. Bush’s death.“If they come — which they have — to talk about an extension because of President Bush’s passing, I would absolutely consider it and probably give it,” the president told reporters aboard Air Force One.	Conservative
President Trump has named China hawk Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Representative, to lead trade talks with Beijing.The move was confirmed Monday by White House trade adviser Peter Navarro, another leading advocate of cracking down on China’s trade abuses.“He’s the toughest negotiator we’ve ever at the USTR and he’s going to go chapter and verse and get tariffs down, non-tariff barriers down and end all these structural practices that prevent market access,” Mr. Navarro said in an interview with National Public Radio.Mr. Lighthizer took over the negotiations after a breakthrough at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin, who is closer to the U.S. financial sector and viewed as less aggressive on China, previously had been leading the negotiations.At the dinner, the U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lowing tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.The president’s get-tough tariffs are credited with forcing China to the negotiating table with offers of concessions, something Beijing vowed it would never do.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey will be interviewed behind closed doors by lawmakers Friday morning, according to a House Judiciary Committee aide.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.But Mr. Comey filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly. Mr. Comey’s team believed the closed-door House session is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”He later withdrew his petition on Sunday, agreeing to sit down for the deposition with the ability to release a transcript to the public within 24 hours.Lawyers had told the judge his testimony would take place Tuesday, but the meeting has since been pushed back to 10 a.m. on Friday.According to the committee aide, the deposition was delayed due to the funeral of the late President George H.W. Bush.The 41st president, who passed away Friday at the age of 94, will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.	Conservative
Sen. John Kennedy announced Monday he will not be running for governor of his home state of Louisiana, saying he felt he could best serve his constituents in his current role.The Republican senator, who has become known on Capitol Hill for his witty one-liners to the press, said he would decide whether to jump in the race this week, with local media reporting he was considered one of the favorites.Mr. Kennedy said he wants to focus on the economy, jobs, health insurance, building a strong military and ending government waste as a member of the U.S. Senate.“I am fortunate to sit on powerful Senate committees that provide a venue to do that,” Mr. Kennedy said.He is not up for re-election until 2022.The election for his state’s next governor is set for October, and two people have already joined the race.Republican Eddie Rispone, a businessman, and Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, have already announced their candidacy, but local media reports said had Mr. Kennedy entered the race, he and Edwards would have been the favorites.	Conservative
President Trump threatened to close the southern border Monday and said building the wall would end up saving taxpayers money.“We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “Either way, people will NOT be allowed into our Country illegally! We will close the entire Southern Border if necessary. Also, STOP THE DRUGS!”Congress and the White House are facing a deadline Friday for funding parts of the federal government, although an extension of a week or two in the deadline is likely. Still unresolved is Mr. Trump’s request for more money to build the wall.The president also referred to his $716 billion defense budget as “crazy,” saying he hopes to save money on national security needs later on by negotiating nuclear arms reductions with Russia and China.	Conservative
It was the swiftness and ease with which he operated on the global stage that cemented President George Herbert Walker Bush’s legacy as a great leader who not only protected and advanced America’s interests around the world, but did it in a delicate, nuanced way respected by other powers and future allies.Mr. Bush’s admirers and former colleagues say this was most prominent in 1990, when he and then-Secretary of State James A. Baker moved with stunning speed to build an international coalition that included precedent-setting buy-in from otherwise divided Arab powers to oust Iraqi forces from Kuwait.His biographers have written that the inclusiveness and efficiency of Operation Desert Storm was his “greatest mark on history.”                                                                       SEE ALSO: Bush started a Republican dynasty more powerful, enduring than the Kennedys                                              But students of global affairs know there was actually something else — something much more subtle in the years leading up to the 1991 Gulf War — that truly secured Mr. Bush’s respect as a rare international statesman whose humble, peace-seeking geopolitical touch would impact the lives of millions.President Ronald Reagan may well have changed the world in 1987 when he called on former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down” the Berlin Wall. Yet, as current leaders across Europe have noted in recent days, it was George H.W. Bush who truly closed the book on the Cold War.It was he, they said, whose quiet, behind-the-scenes diplomacy in 1990 persuaded skeptical parties from Paris to London to Warsaw to Moscow to embrace and support the idea of a reunited Germany.                                                                        SEE ALSO: Bush remembered as peerless patriot, patriarch of political dynasty                                              Even as critics in Washington lambasted Mr. Bush for refusing to loudly declare victory in the collapse of a Communist bloc that had so long controlled half of Europe, America’s 41st president was determined to stay the course that the delicacy of the moment demanded.“President Bush’s calmness, leadership and close personal relationships with [then-German Chancellor] Helmut Kohl and Mikhail Gorbachev were decisive in restoring peace and freedom back to so many people across our continent,” European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement over the weekend. “We Europeans will forever remember this.”“He courageously seized the opportunity to end the Cold War,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Saturday in a statement. “He is also an architect of German unity. He supported it from the beginning without reservations. We will never forget that.”Mr. Bush was “a great statesman,” said British Prime Minister Theresa May. “In navigating a peaceful end to the Cold War, he made the world a safer place for generations to come.”The sentiments over the weekend stretched all the way to Moscow, where Russia’s Interfax news agency cited Mr. Gorbachev as recalling Mr. Bush as a “genuine partner.”Even Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has aggravated Washington with Cold War-style provocation in recent years, paid his respects Saturday, referring in a statement to Mr. Bush’s “political wisdom and foresight.”It was also a decisiveness undergirding his foresight that made Mr. Bush so effective as a coalition builder. With regard to the Gulf War, the former president’s closest aides say his decisiveness was born from a confidence that all had been done that could be done to avoid war before finally committing to the use of American military force.“He didn’t want to have a first Gulf War. He did everything he could to avoid it,” former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman and later Secretary of State Colin Powell said over the weekend. “We went to the United Nations, at the very last minute, when the war was about to start, he sent Jim Baker over to speak with the Iraqi prime minister and tell him, ‘You know, you don’t want to see this happen.’”Only when it was finally and fully clear that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein didn’t take the message to heart, Mr. Powell told NPR, Mr. Bush went into decision mode and “it was very clear what the war was all about.”“From the very beginning, it was a war that was defined in terms of what we were going to accomplish, and when it was over, we would come home,” he said. “And that’s exactly what we did … and it was because the president knew what he wanted. He had a specific mission.”‘A remarkable American legacy’With victory secured, the Gulf War’s long-term aftermath was something Mr. Bush would later suggest he was personally bothered by. The ousting of Iraqi forces from Kuwait didn’t lead to the Hussein regime’s downfall in Baghdad, a reality that led Mr. Bush to acknowledge in a 1996 interview that he felt he’d “miscalculated” the Iraqi dictator’s hold on power.Still, in contrast to the messy insurgency that eventually would envelop Iraq following the 2003 U.S.-led invasion authorized by his son, President George W. Bush, the decisiveness and mission clarity of Desert Storm have come to stand as a textbook example of how America can conduct coalition building.Mr. Bush knew of war’s horrors because he experienced it personally as a younger man. He was shot down as a fighter pilot in World War II while completing a bombing run against a Japanese radio tower. Eight others who were shot down in that mission were captured and executed.Such lore added to the depth of Mr. Bush’s character when he entered the House of Representatives in the late 1960s. It seemed that eventual executive and world leadership were inevitable for Mr. Bush when President Richard M. Nixon tapped him as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in 1971.Mr. Bush later obliged when Nixon’s successor, President Gerald R. Ford, asked him to become the chief U.S. envoy to China, a position he would hold until Mr. Ford nominated him to be director of the CIA in 1976.The sobriety with which he ran the CIA is often lost in examinations of his past. The CIA honored him in 1999 by naming its Northern Virginia headquarters the George Bush Center for Intelligence in recognition of his effective and respected leadership in keeping Washington politics from sullying the intelligence community’s work.“We’ve lost a great champion of the Agency — an accomplished Director, faithful advocate, and dear friend — with [his] passing,” current CIA Director Gina Haspel said in a statement over the weekend. “As a heroic Navy pilot in the Second World War, a skilled statesman who deftly managed the collapse of the Soviet Union and liberated Kuwait from Saddam Husayn’s aggression, and a committed citizen who remained engaged in public service throughout his later years, President Bush exemplified the virtues of patriotism, duty, and compassion.”It’s a reverence echoed by others who run America’s foreign and national security policies with the Trump administration.Mr. Bush led “a true life of service,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told CNN. “It’s a remarkable American legacy, and they don’t make them like that very often.”“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” said Defense Secretary James Mattis.“His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence,” said Mr. Mattis. “We will miss him, but at the going down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”	Conservative
He served in World War II as the nation’s youngest Navy combat pilot, surviving a fiery crash over Chichijima in 1944 and earning the Distinguished Flying Cross.Three decades later, he took the helm at the CIA and steered the spy agency out of an “all-time low” period of upheaval and controversy, providing stability and setting a template for leadership that his successors have followed.While his most enduring legacy is having been the 41st president of the United States and the patriarch of a towering political dynasty, George H.W. Bush also made an indelible mark as an American warrior, made history with his military service and left a lasting impression on the U.S. intelligence community.Mr. Bush died late Friday at his home in Houston. He was 94.His name forever will be tied to the fall of the Berlin Wall, America’s victory in the Cold War and the U.S.-led victory over Saddam Hussein’s Iraq in the Persian Gulf War of the early 1990s.But across the military and intelligence communities, officials say Mr. Bush will be remembered for his courage and leadership in the years long before he entered the Oval Office.“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” Defense Secretary James Mattis said in a statement late Friday. “His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence. We will miss him, but at the going-down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”At 18, Mr. Bush joined the military in 1942, months after the U.S. was thrust into World War II after the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. By June 1943, the future president had “earned his wings,” as the military puts it, making him the youngest Navy pilot at the time.Serving in the Pacific theater, Mr. Bush flew torpedo bomber missions off the deck of the USS San Jacinto. In 1944, his plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire that killed two of his crewmen, but he still completed the mission.Mr. Bush bailed out of the aircraft and was rescued by the submarine USS Finback.Even after his lifetime of political service, the 41st president maintained that one of his proudest moments was signing up for the armed forces — and he urged young men and women to follow his example.“Exactly half a century ago  we were at war, and I was graduating from school,” Mr. Bush said during his January 1993 farewell speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. “The speaker that day at Andover was the then-Secretary of War Henry Stimson. And his message was one of public service, but with a twist — on the importance of finishing one’s schooling before going off to fight for one’s country. I listened closely to what he had to say, but I didn’t take his advice.“And that day was my 18th birthday. And when the commencement ceremony ended, I went on into Boston and enlisted in the Navy as a seaman 2nd class,” he said. “And I never regretted it. You, too, have signed up. You, too, will never regret it. And I salute you for it.”After his military service, Mr. Bush married Barbara Pierce in January 1945, graduated from Yale University in 1948, thrived in the oil business and ultimately entered politics, running for election to the House of Representatives in 1966. He eventually exited Congress to serve as President Nixon’s ambassador to the United Nations.In 1976, Mr. Bush took another job that would help cement his pre-White House legacy. Appointed by President Ford, Mr. Bush took the reins at the CIA just a year after shocking revelations that the agency had spied on domestic anti-war groups and even brainstormed assassination plots against foreign leaders.Amid broad distrust in government after the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal, Mr. Bush steered the CIA back on course at a crucial moment in history, restoring some level of public faith in the agency and ultimately leaving a mark as one of its most important directors, despite serving in the post for only one year.“Though his tenure was limited, his accomplishments were not. Bush joined the agency at a tumultuous time when morale was at an all-time low,” the CIA said in a statement over the weekend. “He believed strongly in the mission of the agency, and he believed in the CIA officers serving their nation. As [director of the Central Intelligence Agency,] he immediately established himself as a leader who restored the morale and reputation of the CIA.”Specifically, it was Mr. Bush’s broad experience as a war pilot, member of Congress and diplomat that gave him the political gravitas the CIA desperately needed at the time.“His tenure provided a meaningful and helpful ‘calm between the storms’ for the agency in the 1970s,” the CIA said. “As the first [director] who had served in Congress, Bush had the political influence to reshape the way the agency was viewed among its most important stakeholders — the president of the United States and U.S. policymakers.”	Conservative
The late President George H.W. Bush’s last words before he died Friday night were to his eldest son, President George W. Bush, who he spoke with over the phone.James Baker, former chief of staff to the 41st president, told CNN that just before the president passed away, he spoke to his children and told his eldest son, “I love you, too.”Mr. Baker, who frequently visited Mr. Bush while he was ill, described his passing as “peaceful.”“He used to refer to our relationship as big brother, little brother … that is a characterization I take as quite an honor. I consider him to be my best friend,” Mr. Baker told CNN on Sunday.Mr. Bush passed away Friday night, roughly seven months after losing his wife of 73 years, Barbara Bush, in April.“He really wasn’t ready to go after Barbara died, but by the time he got back here in Houston from his summer … I think he was pretty much ready to go. The quality of life had deteriorated a lot for him,” Mr. Baker said.The late president will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.The last person to lie in state was the late Sen. John McCain, who passed away in August.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey said Sunday he plans to sit down with lawmakers this week behind closed doors, asking the court to withdraw his motion to halt their subpoena.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.He filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly, but said the closed-door session the House has planned is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”“Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” Mr. Comey tweeted Sunday.The deposition is set for Friday.House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte anticipated Mr. Comey would withdraw his legal motion.“The parties have been working together,” Mr. Goodlatte told Fox News. “I think that the strength of the presentation by Tom Hungar, the House counsel, on Friday in the House’s brief is very compelling.”The federal judge who heard from the parties on Friday put off issuing a decision until Monday morning, where he was expected to continue the hearing.But on Sunday, Mr. Comey’s lawyers petitioned the court to withdraw his earlier filing and cancel Monday’s hearing, which the judge granted.“Mr. Comey appreciates the court’s attention to the above-captioned matter, but has now reached an acceptable accommodation with U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary for voluntary testimony,” Mr. Comey’s lawyers said in court papers.Mr. Goodlatte, who is retiring at the end of the year, told Fox News his committee needs to speak with Mr. Comey, so it can wrap up the probe into FBI actions during the 2016 election, and the use of a FISA court to conduct surveillance on Trump campaign associates.With Democrats taking charge of the committee in January, it’s expected they would not continue pursuing the matter. But Mr. Goodlatte said he believes the incoming chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Sen. Lindsey Graham will continue to investigate what transpired during the 2016 election.“Mr. Comey’s testimony is a critical part of that,” Mr. Goodlatte said.The top Democrat on the committee Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York, who is pegged to become the new committee chair in the incoming Congress, told NBC News the behind-door interview is inadequate and a public transcript doesn’t suffice.“Let Comey testify in public. There is no military secrets here,” Mr. Nadler said on Sunday. “We ought to have openness and accountability to the American public.”Rep. Trey Gowdy, South Carolina Republican, who leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said a public hearing isn’t the solution and suggested video taping Mr. Comey’s deposition could remedy any concern over leaks.“That way the public can see whether the question was fair. They can judge the entirety of the answer,” Mr. Gowdy previously told CBS.	Conservative
BOSTON — Massachusetts’s governor wants a judge he nominated pulled off the bench amid a federal investigation into whether she helped a man in the country illegally evade immigration officials.Republican Gov. Charlie Baker said Monday that District Court Judge Shelley Joseph shouldn’t hear criminal cases until the investigation is resolved.He said judges shouldn’t be in the “business of obstructing justice.”The Boston Globe reported Sunday that a grand jury is considering whether Joseph and other court officials broke the law in helping Jose Medina-Perez leave the Newton District Court after an April hearing on drug possession charges.The newspaper said an immigration enforcement agent was in the courtroom to detain Medina-Perez, but the Dominican Republic native was let out through a back door.Joseph and state trial court officials declined to comment.	Conservative
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) - President Donald Trump is set to visit Missouri for a conference on crime.According to the White House, Trump will speak Friday at the 2018 Project Safe Neighborhoods National Conference in Kansas City.Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker is among U.S. Department of Justice leaders slated to speak at the conference. The White House says the event is expected to draw hundreds of law enforcement officials, prosecutors and others focused on cutting back on crime.The George W. Bush-era Project Safe Neighborhoods faded during former President Barack Obama’s administration. Former U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions revived it last year.Through the initiative, federal prosecutors have worked with local law enforcement agencies to target offenders in cases involving guns, drugs and gangs.	Conservative
BOSTON (AP) - Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker wants a judge he nominated pulled off the bench amid a federal investigation into whether she and other court staff helped a man evade immigration officials who believe he’s in the country illegally.The Republican governor said Monday that District Court Judge Shelley Joseph shouldn’t hear criminal cases until the investigation is resolved.“Judges are not supposed to be in the business of obstructing justice,” he told reporters at the State House. “I find this story, as it’s currently been presented, extremely troubling.”The Boston Globe reported Sunday a federal grand jury is considering whether Joseph and other officials broke the law in helping Jose Medina-Perez leave the Newton District Court after an April hearing on charges, including drug possession and a warrant for drunken driving in Pennsylvania.The newspaper said an immigration enforcement agent was in the courtroom to detain Medina-Perez following the proceeding, but the defendant was let out through a back door instead.Medina-Perez told police during his most recent arrest he’s a 36-year-old U.S. citizen, but immigration enforcement officials say his real name is Oscar Manuel Peguero, a 38-year-old from Dominican Republic who has been deported twice already.The Globe reported that Joseph was aware that Medina-Perez would be detained by immigration officials following the hearing and appeared to discuss ways to prevent that from happening, including continuing the case to a later date.“ICE is going to get him,” Joseph told the state prosecutor and Medina-Perez’s lawyer during a sidebar discussion partially captured by the courtroom’s audio recorder. The judge eventually instructed the recorder be briefly shut off.Newton is among several Massachusetts communities that have declared themselves “sanctuary cities” that limit their cooperation with federal immigration enforcement.Massachusetts trial courts also require that court staff neither help nor hinder federal agents and that all court sessions must be recorded, the Globe reported.Joseph and state trial court officials have declined to comment.The U.S. Attorney’s office, Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Medina-Perez’s lawyer also didn’t immediately respond to emails seeking comment.Baker appointed Joseph to the state court last year after a career as prosecutor and later as a defense lawyer.	Conservative
SEATTLE (AP) - A man who once worked at the federal courthouse in Seattle has been sentenced to five years in prison for impersonating an FBI agent and robbing or burglarizing immigrant-owned businesses last year.Steven W. Fisher worked in facilities management at the court, at the Seattle FBI field office and for Boeing. But after losing his job and going through a divorce, the 44-year-old says, he was feeling depressed and desperate.He used fake law enforcement credentials, sometimes in the name of the Tom Clancy character Jack Ryan, when he went to four small money-transmitting businesses.He told employees he was investigating crime, asked about surveillance cameras, and later broke in and stole money or, in one case, pulled a gun and took money from a safe.He was arrested in August 2017 when the owner of the fourth business hit a panic alarm.Judge James Robart sentenced Fisher Monday and ordered him to pay $125,000 in restitution.	Conservative
PHILADELPHIA (AP) - A long-time Philadelphia political consultant has been convicted of campaign finance violations involving the 2012 re-election bid of Democratic U.S. Rep. Bob Brady.A jury Monday convicted Kenneth Smukler of conspiracy to defraud the United States and other campaign finance violations. Prosecutors say Smukler helped orchestrate a $90,000 payment to Brady’s primary election opponent through a series of false documents and illegal pass-throughs. Opponent Jimmie Moore had agreed to drop out of the race if Brady’s campaign could pay off his campaign debts.Smukler was also found guilty in connection with his work on the unsuccessful 2014 campaign by former Democratic U.S. Rep. Marjorie Margolies to reclaim her seat.Prosecutors say Smukler caused the Margolies campaign to illegally use general election funds to pay for primary election expenditures, then lied about it to the campaign’s lawyer.Brady did not seek re-election this year.	Conservative
WASHINGTON (AP) - The Latest on a government funding bill that President Donald Trump hopes includes money for his promised border wall (all times local):6:20 p.m.A meeting between President Donald Trump and Democratic leaders in Congress has been postponed until next week.Trump had invited the two top Democratic leaders, Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York and Rep. Nancy Pelosi of California, to the White House for a meeting Tuesday to talk about ways to avert a partial government shutdown set to occur at midnight Friday.Democrats asked Monday to postpone the meeting, citing funeral services and other ceremonies honoring former President George H.W. Bush, who died Friday. A White House official who was not authorized to speak publicly says the meeting has been tentatively rescheduled for Dec. 11.The official says Trump will sign off on a two-week funding delay being requested by congressional leaders, given the services for Bush this week.- By Associated Press writer Catherine Lucey___5:25 p.m.Congressional leaders have introduced a two-week funding bill to avert a partial government shutdown over President Donald Trump’s border wall, as business in the Capitol came to a standstill for ceremonies honoring former President George H.W. Bush.The stopgap measure introduced Monday would keep the government funded through Dec. 21, two weeks after a Friday deadline when funding for a portion of the government is set to expire.The measure comes as Trump kept up pressure on congressional Democrats to fund his promised border wall and threatened other actions to deter illegal immigration as negotiations continue.Trump claimed in a tweet that “We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall.”___9:15 a.m.President Donald Trump is keeping the pressure on congressional Democrats over funding for his promised border wall.Trump tweeted Monday: “We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall.” He did not provide any evidence for the savings, but again threatened to close the “entire Southern Border if necessary.”A Dec. 7 partial government shutdown had appeared possible, but Trump told reporters on Air Force One Saturday he would be willing to sign a two-week government funding extension to allow for ceremonies honoring former President George H.W. Bush, who died Friday.Trump had been gearing up for a showdown as he sought billions for the construction of a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.	Conservative
WASHINGTON (AP) - President Donald Trump praised a key witness in the Russia investigation Monday for having the “guts” not to testify against him, and said his former lawyer - who cut a deal with prosecutors - should head straight to prison.In a pair of politically charged tweets, Trump made clear that he is closely watching those who turn on him in the special counsel’s probe, which has ensnared some of the president’s closest advisers. So far, five people in Trump’s orbit have pleaded guilty to federal charges.The tweets add to mounting questions about whether Trump is taking steps to improperly influence witnesses in an investigation that has enraged him and shadowed his administration. Some legal experts, though, say they may not amount to witness tampering if Trump didn’t directly tell others what to say or not say.Trump already has come under scrutiny from critics who fear he may use his executive power to protect himself as well as friends and supporters. Last week, Trump told the New York Post that a pardon for his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was not off the table.Prosecutors say Manafort torpedoed his plea deal with special counsel Robert Mueller by repeatedly lying to them, although Manafort denies that he lied.In one of Monday’s tweets, Trump took aim at Michael Cohen, his former personal attorney who once grandly declared he would “take a bullet” for the president but ultimately took a plea deal.Cohen pleaded guilty last week to lying to Congress about negotiations he had on Trump’s behalf for a real estate deal in Moscow.Though he told lawmakers the talks were done by January 2016, he admitted they actually lasted as late as June - after Trump had clinched the Republican nomination and after Russians had penetrated Democratic email accounts for communications later released through WikiLeaks.Cohen said he lied out of loyalty to Trump, who insisted throughout the campaign that he had no business dealings in Russia, and to be consistent with his political messaging.On Monday, Trump ripped into Cohen on Twitter.“You mean he can do all of the TERRIBLE, unrelated to Trump, things having to do with fraud, big loans, Taxis, etc., and not serve a long prison term?” Trump added that Cohen “makes up stories to get a GREAT & ALREADY reduced deal for himself.”Trump added: “He lied for this outcome and should, in my opinion, serve a full and complete sentence.”Minutes later, Trump lavished praise on his former campaign adviser Roger Stone. Mueller’s prosecutors are investigating Stone to learn whether he had advance knowledge of WikiLeaks’ plans to release hacked material damaging to Hillary Clinton’s presidential effort.Trump lauded Stone for saying he’d never testify against the president.“This statement was recently made by Roger Stone, essentially stating that he will not be forced by a rogue and out of control prosecutor to make up lies and stories about ‘President Trump,’” he tweeted. “Nice to know that some people still have ‘guts!’”Stone then posted a screenshot of Trump’s tweet with a caption that said he was proud of their 40-year relationship and “prouder still of the amazing job he is doing making America Great Again!”Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, said Trump’s tweet was inappropriate.“The President of the United States should not be using his platform to influence potential witnesses in a federal investigation involving his campaign,” Warner said in a tweet.Stone said the idea that Trump’s tweet amount to witness tampering is “hysterical.”“I’m not a witness to any proceeding,” he said.David Weinstein, a former Justice Department prosecutor in Florida, said he was surprised by Trump’s comments Monday, but didn’t believe the tweets alone rose to the level of obstruction or witness tampering because Trump did not explicitly tell anyone what to say or not to say. Subjects of an investigation can still communicate to others entangled in a probe, and though they can encourage them to tell the truth, they cannot coach them to lie, he said.“What he seems to be saying is that people who continue to show support for him, in some way, may be rewarded for that support,” Weinstein said. “I don’t think it rises to the level of obstruction yet, but it certainly would cause people who are conducting the investigation to start asking questions about whether or not the target has reached out to them.”Trump’s message had an immediate effect on supporters. His remarks prompted Michael Caputo, the president’s former campaign aide and a longtime Stone friend, to launch a “GoFundMe” account to help pay Stone’s mounting legal fees.Stone said he’s paid about half a million in legal fees already and is projecting that total to reach $2 million.“I require a small platoon of excellent lawyers and they’re not inexpensive,” he said.A conservative author, who is an associate of Stone and in the crosshairs of Mueller’s investigation, filed a complaint Monday with the Justice Department, alleging prosecutors tried to coerce him to give false testimony and threatened to indict him.Investigators are looking into whether Jerome Corsi had contact with WikiLeaks or knew about their plans to release emails damaging to Clinton. Corsi has released documents showing Mueller’s prosecutors offered him a deal to plead guilty to a false statements charge but he’s rejected the offer. Corsi says he didn’t knowingly mislead investigators and wasn’t in contact with WikiLeaks. The Justice Department declined to comment on his complaint.The Russia investigation has dogged Trump for two years. In recent weeks, Trump has sharpened his criticism, accusing Mueller’s prosecutors of dirty tactics and pressuring witnesses to lie.Cohen’s decision to turn on his former boss was a particularly striking blow for the president.Cohen pleaded guilty in August to eight criminal counts, including campaign-finance violations, in a separate case unrelated to Mueller’s investigation. He said Trump directed him to arrange the payment of hush money to porn star Stormy Daniels and a former Playboy model in the run-up to the 2016 campaign.Cohen’s admission during that court appearance marked the first time that a Trump associate had gone to court and implicated Trump in a crime.Whether - or when - a president can be prosecuted remains a matter of legal dispute. Trump has denied any wrongdoing as well as the extramarital affairs.___Associated Press writers Chad Day and Jill Colvin contributed to this report.	Conservative
MADRID (AP) - Two imprisoned members of the Catalonia region’s previous government have joined two secessionist colleagues in a hunger strike to protest what they say is unfair treatment by Spanish courts.Former Catalan infrastructure minister Josep Rull and Joaquim Forn, the ex-interior minister, said in a statement Monday that Spain’s Constitutional Court has blocked their appeals of being held in pre-trial custody for more than year.They say that has prevented them taking their case to the European Court of Human Rights, which can only happen when all Spanish appeals are exhausted.Regional politicians Jordi Sanchez and Jordi Turull started their hunger strike Saturday.Five other separatist leaders face trial on sedition and other charges for their roles in an illegal secession attempt by Catalonia’s leaders last year.	Conservative
Lawyers for porn actress Stormy Daniels and President Trump’s former personal attorney got in a face-to-face confrontation in a Santa Monica courthouse hallway.Michael Avenatti, who represents Daniels, and Brent Blakely, who represents Michael Cohen, exchanged accusations Monday in Los Angeles County Superior Court.Avenatti said Blakely represented a felon. Blakely responded that Avenatti is a felon. Avenatti said he’s never been convicted of a crime.Cohen has pleaded guilty to several felonies and admitted funneling money to Daniels to keep her quiet about an affair she has said she had with Trump.It’s not clear what Blakely referred to, though Anenatti was arrested last month on suspicion of domestic violence.Prosecutors declined bringing felony charges against Avenatti. They are investigating whether he should face a misdemeanor charge for allegations he roughed up a girlfriend. Avenatti has denied wrongdoing.	Conservative
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) - A new sentencing date has been set for next month in the case of the three Kansas militia members convicted of plotting to bomb a mosque and an apartment complex housing Somali immigrants.A court filing Monday shows the hearing for Patrick Stein, Gavin Wright and Curtis Allen will be Jan. 25 before U.S. District Judge Eric Melgren in Wichita.A federal jury in April convicted the three men of conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction and conspiracy against civil rights. Wright was also found guilty of lying to the FBI.The attack in the meatpacking town of Garden City was planned for the day after the 2016 general election. It was thwarted by another member of the group who tipped off authorities about escalating threats of violence.	Conservative
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is congratulating Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador on taking office as Mexico’s new president.Trump tweets that Lopez Obrador had a “tremendous political victory with the great support of the Mexican People.” Trump predicts the two will “work well together for many years to come!”Lopez Obrador was sworn in to office on Saturday. More than 30 million Mexicans voted for him in a sweeping July 1 election victory.The day he was sworn in, Lopez Obrador signed an agreement with El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras to work on a plan to stem migration to the U.S. from those countries. The issue of Central American migrants has vexed Trump, who has complained that Mexico hasn’t done enough to stop the flow.Trump has sent thousands of troops to the southern border.	Conservative
PORTLAND, Ore. — Oregon’s attorney general has approved language for a ballot measure to make psychedelic mushrooms legal.Oregon Public Broadcasting reports that the measure would reduce criminal penalties for the manufacture, delivery and possession of psilocybin - the hallucinogen contained in psychedelic mushrooms.The Oregon Psilocybin Society plans this month to start gathering the 140,000 signatures necessary to get the measure onto the ballot in 2020.The number of signatures required is nearly equal to the population of Salem.The federal government controlled use of mushrooms in the 1970s.A spokeswoman for Oregon’s top prosecutor, Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, tells OPB the agency doesn’t typically comment on ballot measures.A similar effort to legalize in California failed recently.	Conservative
WASHINGTON — The attorneys general of the District of Columbia and Maryland say they’re moving forward with subpoenas for records in their case accusing President Donald Trump of profiting off the presidency.Subpoenas are expected to be sent out within hours of Monday’s order from U.S. District Court Judge Peter J. Messitte approving the legal discovery schedule. Such information would likely provide the first clear picture of the finances of Trump’s Washington, D.C., hotel.Trump’s Justice Department lawyers filed a notice to the court on Friday that appeared to challenge the Maryland judge’s decision to allow the case to move forward. The Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The Constitution’s Emoluments Clause prohibits federal officials from accepting benefits from foreign or state governments without congressional approval.	Conservative
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) - North Carolina’s governor named a new state elections board chairman on Monday, tasked with leading an investigation into alleged absentee ballot fraud and other irregularities in a very close congressional race.Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper elevated Vice Chairman Joshua Malcolm to the top position. The previous chairman, Andy Penry, resigned last weekend after Republicans accused Penry of violating board rules with overtly partisan comments online in recent months.Penry said he resigned because he didn’t want to undermine an ongoing probe of potential wrongdoing in the state’s 9th Congressional District.The board voted last week to hold an evidentiary hearing before Dec. 21 about absentee ballots in the south-central 9th District. Unofficial results show Republican Mark Harris leading Democrat Dan McCready by 905 votes. The Associated Press has retracted its call of Harris being the winner, saying it is treating the board’s action as if the case proceeded to a recount.Malcolm’s “leadership and experience will help ensure fair and honest elections,” Cooper said in a statement. The governor also appointed another Democrat Monday to fill a vacancy on the nine-member board.The board declined last week to finalize Harris’ victory. Members have expressed concerns about voting totals in other races in Bladen and Robeson counties, two of the district’s eight counties. The district attorney in Wake County also revealed Monday that her office has been investigating potential “voting irregularities” in Bladen County since early this year, going back to 2016.A state board investigator took mail-in absentee ballot applications and envelopes from Bladen County the day after Election Day. Harris performed extremely well in Bladen County in last month’s general election and during his primary election win over GOP Rep. Robert Pittenger.Bladen also was the only county in the 9th where Harris won a majority of the mail-in absentee ballots. In the primary, Harris won 96 percent of the mail-in ballots in Bladen on the way to his narrow victory over Pittenger.Malcolm, a Democrat from Robeson County, which adjoins Bladen, expressed frustration last week with voting problems in his area. He said information about past “unfortunate activities” had been referred to federal and local prosecutors.Wake County DA Lorrin Freeman, whose office often investigates election-related crimes, said her Bladen County probe began 10 months ago related to 2016 voting but now includes allegations from this year’s primary and general election. Freeman couldn’t say when she expected a resolution.“This is a large, paper-intensive investigation and these things just take time,” Freeman said in an interview. Her investigation was first reported by The News & Observer of Raleigh.A spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Raleigh would neither confirm nor deny the existence of a federal investigation.State Republican Party Executive Director Dallas Woodhouse said recently that there’s been no evidence made public that illegal conduct occurred. And Harris said late Friday that to date there was “absolutely no public evidence that there are enough ballots in question to affect the outcome of this race.”Malcolm told the AP on Monday the board would inform the public on its work ahead of a hearing. He declined to say when the hearing would occur.The state Democratic Party has provided affidavits from Bladen County residents. Registered voters signing two of the affidavits said a woman came to their homes in September and October requesting their absentee ballots. Those affidavits said the woman took the ballots but they were not in sealed envelopes, as is required. Another voter said she received an absentee ballot request in the mail for which she didn’t ask.Democratic Party Chair Wayne Goodwin said Monday it was too soon to know whether the investigation would change the vote tally but said the investigation needs continue.“From what we’ve seen from these sworn affidavits, and we will learn more as the hearing is held, there appears to be election tampering, election rigging, election stealing,” he told reporters.Shortly after the November 2016 election, McCrae Dowless of Bladen County filed an election protest alleging a “massive scheme” by a local political group to run an “absentee ballot mill” designed to improperly turn in votes for a write-in candidate for a local position for which Dowless was running.Then-GOP Gov. Pat McCrory’s campaign supported investigating such allegations as he trailed Cooper in their gubernatorial race. Dowless appeared in a December 2016 board hearing in which members questioned him about other voting activities and dismissed his protest.Harris consultant Andy Yates told The Charlotte Observer that Dowless worked for him as an independent contractor, doing grassroots work for the Harris campaign. Dowless and Yates didn’t return phone calls Monday seeking comment.__Associated Press writer Emery P. Dalesio contributed to this report.	Conservative
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) - Arkansas’ Republican governor said Monday that he doesn’t believe the state needs to require schools to have an armed presence on campus but said districts should be able to apply for state facilities funding to pay for security upgrades.Gov. Asa Hutchinson said he didn’t see a need to mandate armed guards or staff at schools as he accepted the final recommendations from a panel he formed this year to look at ways to improve school security. Hutchinson formed the Arkansas School Safety Commission in response to the February school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 students and staff members dead.“The final decision should be made by the local school district and local school leadership,” Hutchinson said at a news conference announcing the panel’s recommendations. Hutchinson noted that the panel found most Arkansas’ school districts already have a school resource officer, while others have administrators, faculty or staff who are trained and armed.Like a preliminary report that was issued by the panel over the summer, the 30 final recommendations provided few specifics on cost. It called on state leaders to push for the federal government to allow an existing block grant program to be used for school safety improvements. Hutchinson said he also supports allowing state school facilities funding to be used for security upgrades, but said it was unclear whether that would require a change in state law.The report also called for changes in how schools address mental health and other issues. It called for districts to conduct “school climate surveys” to help identify and deter bullying and other negative behavior.“I believe this is a report that is not going to sit on anyone’s desk without action,” he said.Hutchinson spearheaded an effort by the National Rifle Association that called for trained, armed staff at schools after the 2012 elementary school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, that killed 26 people. He also signed legislation last year that expanded where concealed handguns are allowed in the state.He said he thought it was wise that the panel didn’t address broader legislation, including proposed “red flag” laws Democratic lawmakers have said they’ll call for next year that would allow the temporary seizure of guns from Arkansans if they’re found to pose a threat to themselves or others. Hutchinson hasn’t ruled out backing such legislation, but said he hasn’t seen any proposal that has due process protections he thinks would be necessary.“This commission focused on schools, and red flag laws are much broader than the schools,” Hutchinson said.___Follow Andrew DeMillo on Twitter at www.twitter.com/ademillo	Conservative
NEW YORK (AP) - A federal judge Monday sentenced a Buffalo developer to 28 months behind bars and ordered him to pay a $500,000 fine in a bid-rigging scheme connected to Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s “Buffalo Billion” economic redevelopment program.U.S. District Judge Valerie Caproni suspended the prison term while Louis Ciminelli appeals his conviction.Ciminelli, 63, was found guilty with three others over the summer in a pay-to-play conspiracy in which his firm won a development job worth a half billion dollars. Prosecutors called the scheme an “enormous fraud” and said it involved state-funded contracts worth more than $850 million.Ciminelli and others in his company contributed nearly $100,000 to Cuomo’s campaign, prosecutors said. The Democratic governor was not accused of wrongdoing.Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Podolsky asked Caproni not to allow Ciminelli the chance to “buy his way out of prison” by pointing to his years of philanthropy in Buffalo. Rather, he asked the judge to send the message that “everyone has to play by the same rules” when bidding on state contracts, irrespective of which lobbyists they know and which connections they have.Caproni credited Ciminelli for his generous giving and said she had taken into account the developer’s recent diagnosis of multiple myeloma, a blood cancer. But she also scolded Ciminelli for obstructing the federal investigation by deleting a critical email after he heard the footsteps of the FBI.“I hope this sentence will be heard around the state,” the judge said.While Caproni warned of the far-reaching - and nonmonetary- consequences of corruption, she also seemed skeptical of some portions of the government’s case, which Ciminelli’s defense attorney had assailed as weak. She noted the developer would have faced a significantly harsher sentence had federal prosecutors managed to put a more precise price tag on the loss to taxpayers.Caproni said the case left her and others to wonder what other economic development projects Ciminelli’s construction firm might have won by “cheating.”Ciminelli, who has maintained his innocence, told the judge he intends to keep fighting to clear his name.His defense attorney, Paul Shechtman, argued Ciminelli already has suffered the loss of his company and his previously “unblemished reputation.” Outside the Manhattan courthouse, Shechtman told reporters he was pleased his client had been released while a federal appeals court decides “what (Caproni) acknowledged are substantial legal issues.”“Particularly in political corruption cases, she’s a strong minded judge,” he said of Caproni, “so I take great solace in that on what is otherwise a very difficult day.”The jury that found Ciminelli guilty also convicted two other developers and one of Cuomo’s top economic development advisers, former State University of New York Polytechnic Institute President Alain Kaloyeros.Kaloyeros is scheduled for sentencing next week.	Conservative
Rep.-elect Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez got into a Twitter spat with former Gov. Mike Huckabee — and then went after his daughter.The former Arkansas governor was mocking the 28-year-old democratic socialist for comparing her election this November to the 1969 Moon landing.“Big difference. Moon landing was LUNAR, not LOONEY; Moon landing done by ppl who knew what they were doing…those who elected someone who thought there were 3 branches of Congress did NOT,” he wrote, alluding to one of many miscues on basic civics that the rising Democratic star has made in recent months.Both barrels came firing back.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez started by saying that her platform would require “a level of ambition + innovation on the scale of the moon landing. We’ve been done it before, and can do it again.”Then she got personal.“Leave the false statements to Sarah Huckabee. She’s much better at it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said, going on to call the White House press secretary’s father a political has-been.“Also, you haven’t been a Governor of any state for 10+ years now,” she concluded.She then complained later in the Twitter thread of being ganged up on.“Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universe Have ALL gone after me, just to get lit up,” she wrote.“I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?” she asked.Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universeHave ALL gone after me, just to get lit up.I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?	Conservative
House Republicans on Monday said they have filed a bill that would keep the government running through Dec. 21 and push off an ongoing shutdown battle for a few weeks, as Washington presses pause on official business to mourn the death of former President George H.W. Bush.Congress has already passed legislation to fund about three-quarters of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget next year. That includes funding for the defense, labor, health, and veterans affairs departments.But if lawmakers don’t act before midnight Friday, funding for a number of other departments, such as the departments of commerce, justice, and homeland security, will lapse.The key hang-up is money for President Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall in the homeland security funding bill.Mr. Trump is pushing for $5 billion for the wall, which is in line what the House provided in its DHS funding bill.Democrats say he should accept the $1.6 billion for border security senators included in their 2019 DHS bill.Even still, Mr. Trump indicated over the weekend that he’d likely sign a stopgap extension to give lawmakers more time to negotiate in light of Mr. Bush’s death.	Conservative
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Monday that plans were in the works to scrap subsidies for electric cars and other renewable energy items, Reuters reported.Mr. Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council, said the subsidies could end as soon as 2020. It is part of the administration’s response to General Motors closing plants and cutting jobs in the U.S.President Trump last week threatened to end  electric car subsidies after GM announced five plant closings — four in the U.S. and one in Canada — as it cuts domestic production of sedans.The punishment would have limited impact on GM, however, because the automaker is on pace to sell too many electric cars to qualify for subsidies.Mr. Kudlow said the rollback of subsidies would also include “renewables.”	Conservative
Incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called on Congress Monday to raise salaries for staffers on Capitol Hill, saying that interns and aides are severely underpaid.The New York Democrat took to Twitter to describe eating at a “dive spot” in D.C. where several employees were also working in congressional offices.“It is unjust for Congress to budget a living wage for ourselves, yet rely on unpaid interns and underpaid overworked staff just [because] Republicans want to make a statement about ‘fiscal responsibility,’” she wrote.She also demanded that Republicans pay their staffers more by either cutting their staff or support raising the Members’ Representational Allowance, where the funds for staff salaries is pulled.	Conservative
President Trump’s top economic adviser said Monday he expects rapid action from China on trade concessions to the U.S., including big tariff reductions — maybe to zero — on automobiles.“They put stuff on the table that we have not seen before,” said Larry Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council.He said the commitments by Beijing include cutting tariffs and addressing theft of intellectual property that have topped Mr. Trump’s list of demands.“This is just an enormous, enormous event,” Mr. Kudlow told reports on a conference call.The breakthrough in trade talks included commitments from China for “immediate” action, he said.“So we’ll see,” Mr. Kudlow said. “But I can tell you I’ve never seen that immediately commitment before.”Mr. Kudlow said that the discussions he participated in lead him to believe Beijing would reduce the tariffs on autos from 40 percent to zero.The optimism at the White House stemmed from a truce in the trade war agreed to at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.The U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lower tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.	Conservative
Conservative author Jerome Corsi on Monday filed a criminal and ethics complaint against special counsel Robert Mueller alleging prosecutorial misconduct in the Russia investigation.The 78-page complaint alleges that Mr. Corsi “has been criminally threatened and coerced to tell a lie and call it the truth.”Peter Carr, a spokesman for the special counsel’s office, declined to comment.The complaint was filed to multiple government officials, including acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Jessie K. Liu, Justice Department inspector General Micheal Horowitz and the Bar Disciplinary Counsel.Mr. Corsi’s complaint alleges special counsel prosecutors pressured him to lie. He said Mueller’s team demanded he say he worked on behalf of the Trump campaign as a liaison to longtime political operative Roger Stone and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to coordinate the release of the hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign during the 2016 election.“Dr. Corsi has been threatened with immediate indictment by Mueller’s prosecutorial staff unless he testifies falsely against Roger Stone and/or President Donald Trump and his presidential campaign, among other false testimony,” wrote Mr. Corsi’s attorney Larry Klayman.According to the complaint, Mueller’s team is “knowingly and deceitfully threatening to charge Dr. Corsi with an alleged false statement,” unless he makes false statements about members of the Trump campaign and Mr. Stone.The special counsel’s office has been interested in Mr. Stone’s connections to Mr. Assange, and whether they conspired to leak the emails in an effort to hurt the Clinton campaign.Mr. Klayman, who founded conservative watchdog groups Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch, insists that Mr. Corsi had no advanced knowledge of WikiLeaks’ publishing of hacked DNC emails. Instead, Mr. Klayman contends, his client pieced it together by noticing emails by Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta were missing in the first batch of leaked emails and he assumed it would be in a second data dump.“Employing his professional skills and considerable experience as an analyst and investigative journalist, Dr. Corsi logically concluded that Wikileaks would release Podesta’s emails soon.”In an interview Monday with Newsmax, Mr. Klayman vowed that he will take the case to the Supreme Court, challenging  Mr. Mueller’s authority to investigate alleged ties between Russia and the Trump campaign.“We will challenge Mueller’s constitutional mandate to proceed, which is what the president should have been doing all these months. But we’ll do it,” he said. 	Conservative
The House is not expected to hold any votes for the rest of the week, GOP leaders announced Monday, as Washington turns its attention to the memorial services for former President George H.W. Bush.He will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.A memorial service at Washington National Cathedral is also scheduled to take place Wednesday, to be followed by a service and burial in Texas on Thursday.The Senate is scheduled to gavel in on Monday afternoon, but no votes are expected to be held until at least Wednesday.President Trump announced that Wednesday will be a national day of mourning. Federal employees are excused from work.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer are also asking the White House to postpone a meeting they were to have with Mr. Trump on Tuesday in light of the events surrounding Mr. Bush’s funeral, according to a Democratic aide.Lawmakers are facing an end-of-week deadline to pass new 2019 spending bills and avert a partial shutdown of the federal government.Congress has already passed — and Mr. Trump has signed — legislation to fund roughly 70 percent to 75 percent of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget for 2019.That means regardless of what happens this week, agencies such as the Pentagon, Health and Human Services, and Veterans Affairs are fully funded through September.But funding for the outstanding departments — which include the IRS, NASA and Homeland Security — will lapse if Congress doesn’t act by midnight Friday.Federal employees deemed “essential,” such as Border Patrol agents, would still report to work, though they could face delays in their pay. Others could be furloughed.Negotiators have reported progress on six of the remaining seven individual bills, but are still battling over funding for Mr. Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall.Mr. Trump says he wants $5 billion for wall money — in line with what House appropriators have written into their DHS funding bill — and has indicated that he could try to orchestrate a partial shutdown if he doesn’t get it.Democrats say he needs to accept the $1.6 billion for border security that senators include in their 2019 DHS spending bill.Lawmakers are now talking about approving another stopgap funding bill to keep the rest of the government running past Friday, which would give them more time to negotiate.If no members object, the House and Senate can bypass procedural hurdles to speed measures through.An aide said that while House Democrats favor a one-week stopgap bill, they would likely not object to passing a two-week bill via unanimous consent.Though Mr. Trump has been firm in his demands for $5 billion in wall money, he indicated over the weekend he’d be open to delaying the shutdown showdown beyond this week in light of Mr. Bush’s death.“If they come — which they have — to talk about an extension because of President Bush’s passing, I would absolutely consider it and probably give it,” the president told reporters aboard Air Force One.	Conservative
President Trump has named China hawk Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Representative, to lead trade talks with Beijing.The move was confirmed Monday by White House trade adviser Peter Navarro, another leading advocate of cracking down on China’s trade abuses.“He’s the toughest negotiator we’ve ever at the USTR and he’s going to go chapter and verse and get tariffs down, non-tariff barriers down and end all these structural practices that prevent market access,” Mr. Navarro said in an interview with National Public Radio.Mr. Lighthizer took over the negotiations after a breakthrough at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin, who is closer to the U.S. financial sector and viewed as less aggressive on China, previously had been leading the negotiations.At the dinner, the U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lowing tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.The president’s get-tough tariffs are credited with forcing China to the negotiating table with offers of concessions, something Beijing vowed it would never do.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey will be interviewed behind closed doors by lawmakers Friday morning, according to a House Judiciary Committee aide.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.But Mr. Comey filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly. Mr. Comey’s team believed the closed-door House session is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”He later withdrew his petition on Sunday, agreeing to sit down for the deposition with the ability to release a transcript to the public within 24 hours.Lawyers had told the judge his testimony would take place Tuesday, but the meeting has since been pushed back to 10 a.m. on Friday.According to the committee aide, the deposition was delayed due to the funeral of the late President George H.W. Bush.The 41st president, who passed away Friday at the age of 94, will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.	Conservative
Sen. John Kennedy announced Monday he will not be running for governor of his home state of Louisiana, saying he felt he could best serve his constituents in his current role.The Republican senator, who has become known on Capitol Hill for his witty one-liners to the press, said he would decide whether to jump in the race this week, with local media reporting he was considered one of the favorites.Mr. Kennedy said he wants to focus on the economy, jobs, health insurance, building a strong military and ending government waste as a member of the U.S. Senate.“I am fortunate to sit on powerful Senate committees that provide a venue to do that,” Mr. Kennedy said.He is not up for re-election until 2022.The election for his state’s next governor is set for October, and two people have already joined the race.Republican Eddie Rispone, a businessman, and Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, have already announced their candidacy, but local media reports said had Mr. Kennedy entered the race, he and Edwards would have been the favorites.	Conservative
President Trump threatened to close the southern border Monday and said building the wall would end up saving taxpayers money.“We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “Either way, people will NOT be allowed into our Country illegally! We will close the entire Southern Border if necessary. Also, STOP THE DRUGS!”Congress and the White House are facing a deadline Friday for funding parts of the federal government, although an extension of a week or two in the deadline is likely. Still unresolved is Mr. Trump’s request for more money to build the wall.The president also referred to his $716 billion defense budget as “crazy,” saying he hopes to save money on national security needs later on by negotiating nuclear arms reductions with Russia and China.	Conservative
It was the swiftness and ease with which he operated on the global stage that cemented President George Herbert Walker Bush’s legacy as a great leader who not only protected and advanced America’s interests around the world, but did it in a delicate, nuanced way respected by other powers and future allies.Mr. Bush’s admirers and former colleagues say this was most prominent in 1990, when he and then-Secretary of State James A. Baker moved with stunning speed to build an international coalition that included precedent-setting buy-in from otherwise divided Arab powers to oust Iraqi forces from Kuwait.His biographers have written that the inclusiveness and efficiency of Operation Desert Storm was his “greatest mark on history.”                                                                       SEE ALSO: Bush started a Republican dynasty more powerful, enduring than the Kennedys                                              But students of global affairs know there was actually something else — something much more subtle in the years leading up to the 1991 Gulf War — that truly secured Mr. Bush’s respect as a rare international statesman whose humble, peace-seeking geopolitical touch would impact the lives of millions.President Ronald Reagan may well have changed the world in 1987 when he called on former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down” the Berlin Wall. Yet, as current leaders across Europe have noted in recent days, it was George H.W. Bush who truly closed the book on the Cold War.It was he, they said, whose quiet, behind-the-scenes diplomacy in 1990 persuaded skeptical parties from Paris to London to Warsaw to Moscow to embrace and support the idea of a reunited Germany.                                                                        SEE ALSO: Bush remembered as peerless patriot, patriarch of political dynasty                                              Even as critics in Washington lambasted Mr. Bush for refusing to loudly declare victory in the collapse of a Communist bloc that had so long controlled half of Europe, America’s 41st president was determined to stay the course that the delicacy of the moment demanded.“President Bush’s calmness, leadership and close personal relationships with [then-German Chancellor] Helmut Kohl and Mikhail Gorbachev were decisive in restoring peace and freedom back to so many people across our continent,” European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement over the weekend. “We Europeans will forever remember this.”“He courageously seized the opportunity to end the Cold War,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Saturday in a statement. “He is also an architect of German unity. He supported it from the beginning without reservations. We will never forget that.”Mr. Bush was “a great statesman,” said British Prime Minister Theresa May. “In navigating a peaceful end to the Cold War, he made the world a safer place for generations to come.”The sentiments over the weekend stretched all the way to Moscow, where Russia’s Interfax news agency cited Mr. Gorbachev as recalling Mr. Bush as a “genuine partner.”Even Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has aggravated Washington with Cold War-style provocation in recent years, paid his respects Saturday, referring in a statement to Mr. Bush’s “political wisdom and foresight.”It was also a decisiveness undergirding his foresight that made Mr. Bush so effective as a coalition builder. With regard to the Gulf War, the former president’s closest aides say his decisiveness was born from a confidence that all had been done that could be done to avoid war before finally committing to the use of American military force.“He didn’t want to have a first Gulf War. He did everything he could to avoid it,” former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman and later Secretary of State Colin Powell said over the weekend. “We went to the United Nations, at the very last minute, when the war was about to start, he sent Jim Baker over to speak with the Iraqi prime minister and tell him, ‘You know, you don’t want to see this happen.’”Only when it was finally and fully clear that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein didn’t take the message to heart, Mr. Powell told NPR, Mr. Bush went into decision mode and “it was very clear what the war was all about.”“From the very beginning, it was a war that was defined in terms of what we were going to accomplish, and when it was over, we would come home,” he said. “And that’s exactly what we did … and it was because the president knew what he wanted. He had a specific mission.”‘A remarkable American legacy’With victory secured, the Gulf War’s long-term aftermath was something Mr. Bush would later suggest he was personally bothered by. The ousting of Iraqi forces from Kuwait didn’t lead to the Hussein regime’s downfall in Baghdad, a reality that led Mr. Bush to acknowledge in a 1996 interview that he felt he’d “miscalculated” the Iraqi dictator’s hold on power.Still, in contrast to the messy insurgency that eventually would envelop Iraq following the 2003 U.S.-led invasion authorized by his son, President George W. Bush, the decisiveness and mission clarity of Desert Storm have come to stand as a textbook example of how America can conduct coalition building.Mr. Bush knew of war’s horrors because he experienced it personally as a younger man. He was shot down as a fighter pilot in World War II while completing a bombing run against a Japanese radio tower. Eight others who were shot down in that mission were captured and executed.Such lore added to the depth of Mr. Bush’s character when he entered the House of Representatives in the late 1960s. It seemed that eventual executive and world leadership were inevitable for Mr. Bush when President Richard M. Nixon tapped him as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in 1971.Mr. Bush later obliged when Nixon’s successor, President Gerald R. Ford, asked him to become the chief U.S. envoy to China, a position he would hold until Mr. Ford nominated him to be director of the CIA in 1976.The sobriety with which he ran the CIA is often lost in examinations of his past. The CIA honored him in 1999 by naming its Northern Virginia headquarters the George Bush Center for Intelligence in recognition of his effective and respected leadership in keeping Washington politics from sullying the intelligence community’s work.“We’ve lost a great champion of the Agency — an accomplished Director, faithful advocate, and dear friend — with [his] passing,” current CIA Director Gina Haspel said in a statement over the weekend. “As a heroic Navy pilot in the Second World War, a skilled statesman who deftly managed the collapse of the Soviet Union and liberated Kuwait from Saddam Husayn’s aggression, and a committed citizen who remained engaged in public service throughout his later years, President Bush exemplified the virtues of patriotism, duty, and compassion.”It’s a reverence echoed by others who run America’s foreign and national security policies with the Trump administration.Mr. Bush led “a true life of service,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told CNN. “It’s a remarkable American legacy, and they don’t make them like that very often.”“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” said Defense Secretary James Mattis.“His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence,” said Mr. Mattis. “We will miss him, but at the going down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”	Conservative
He served in World War II as the nation’s youngest Navy combat pilot, surviving a fiery crash over Chichijima in 1944 and earning the Distinguished Flying Cross.Three decades later, he took the helm at the CIA and steered the spy agency out of an “all-time low” period of upheaval and controversy, providing stability and setting a template for leadership that his successors have followed.While his most enduring legacy is having been the 41st president of the United States and the patriarch of a towering political dynasty, George H.W. Bush also made an indelible mark as an American warrior, made history with his military service and left a lasting impression on the U.S. intelligence community.Mr. Bush died late Friday at his home in Houston. He was 94.His name forever will be tied to the fall of the Berlin Wall, America’s victory in the Cold War and the U.S.-led victory over Saddam Hussein’s Iraq in the Persian Gulf War of the early 1990s.But across the military and intelligence communities, officials say Mr. Bush will be remembered for his courage and leadership in the years long before he entered the Oval Office.“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” Defense Secretary James Mattis said in a statement late Friday. “His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence. We will miss him, but at the going-down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”At 18, Mr. Bush joined the military in 1942, months after the U.S. was thrust into World War II after the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. By June 1943, the future president had “earned his wings,” as the military puts it, making him the youngest Navy pilot at the time.Serving in the Pacific theater, Mr. Bush flew torpedo bomber missions off the deck of the USS San Jacinto. In 1944, his plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire that killed two of his crewmen, but he still completed the mission.Mr. Bush bailed out of the aircraft and was rescued by the submarine USS Finback.Even after his lifetime of political service, the 41st president maintained that one of his proudest moments was signing up for the armed forces — and he urged young men and women to follow his example.“Exactly half a century ago  we were at war, and I was graduating from school,” Mr. Bush said during his January 1993 farewell speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. “The speaker that day at Andover was the then-Secretary of War Henry Stimson. And his message was one of public service, but with a twist — on the importance of finishing one’s schooling before going off to fight for one’s country. I listened closely to what he had to say, but I didn’t take his advice.“And that day was my 18th birthday. And when the commencement ceremony ended, I went on into Boston and enlisted in the Navy as a seaman 2nd class,” he said. “And I never regretted it. You, too, have signed up. You, too, will never regret it. And I salute you for it.”After his military service, Mr. Bush married Barbara Pierce in January 1945, graduated from Yale University in 1948, thrived in the oil business and ultimately entered politics, running for election to the House of Representatives in 1966. He eventually exited Congress to serve as President Nixon’s ambassador to the United Nations.In 1976, Mr. Bush took another job that would help cement his pre-White House legacy. Appointed by President Ford, Mr. Bush took the reins at the CIA just a year after shocking revelations that the agency had spied on domestic anti-war groups and even brainstormed assassination plots against foreign leaders.Amid broad distrust in government after the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal, Mr. Bush steered the CIA back on course at a crucial moment in history, restoring some level of public faith in the agency and ultimately leaving a mark as one of its most important directors, despite serving in the post for only one year.“Though his tenure was limited, his accomplishments were not. Bush joined the agency at a tumultuous time when morale was at an all-time low,” the CIA said in a statement over the weekend. “He believed strongly in the mission of the agency, and he believed in the CIA officers serving their nation. As [director of the Central Intelligence Agency,] he immediately established himself as a leader who restored the morale and reputation of the CIA.”Specifically, it was Mr. Bush’s broad experience as a war pilot, member of Congress and diplomat that gave him the political gravitas the CIA desperately needed at the time.“His tenure provided a meaningful and helpful ‘calm between the storms’ for the agency in the 1970s,” the CIA said. “As the first [director] who had served in Congress, Bush had the political influence to reshape the way the agency was viewed among its most important stakeholders — the president of the United States and U.S. policymakers.”	Conservative
The late President George H.W. Bush’s last words before he died Friday night were to his eldest son, President George W. Bush, who he spoke with over the phone.James Baker, former chief of staff to the 41st president, told CNN that just before the president passed away, he spoke to his children and told his eldest son, “I love you, too.”Mr. Baker, who frequently visited Mr. Bush while he was ill, described his passing as “peaceful.”“He used to refer to our relationship as big brother, little brother … that is a characterization I take as quite an honor. I consider him to be my best friend,” Mr. Baker told CNN on Sunday.Mr. Bush passed away Friday night, roughly seven months after losing his wife of 73 years, Barbara Bush, in April.“He really wasn’t ready to go after Barbara died, but by the time he got back here in Houston from his summer … I think he was pretty much ready to go. The quality of life had deteriorated a lot for him,” Mr. Baker said.The late president will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.The last person to lie in state was the late Sen. John McCain, who passed away in August.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey said Sunday he plans to sit down with lawmakers this week behind closed doors, asking the court to withdraw his motion to halt their subpoena.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.He filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly, but said the closed-door session the House has planned is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”“Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” Mr. Comey tweeted Sunday.The deposition is set for Friday.House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte anticipated Mr. Comey would withdraw his legal motion.“The parties have been working together,” Mr. Goodlatte told Fox News. “I think that the strength of the presentation by Tom Hungar, the House counsel, on Friday in the House’s brief is very compelling.”The federal judge who heard from the parties on Friday put off issuing a decision until Monday morning, where he was expected to continue the hearing.But on Sunday, Mr. Comey’s lawyers petitioned the court to withdraw his earlier filing and cancel Monday’s hearing, which the judge granted.“Mr. Comey appreciates the court’s attention to the above-captioned matter, but has now reached an acceptable accommodation with U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary for voluntary testimony,” Mr. Comey’s lawyers said in court papers.Mr. Goodlatte, who is retiring at the end of the year, told Fox News his committee needs to speak with Mr. Comey, so it can wrap up the probe into FBI actions during the 2016 election, and the use of a FISA court to conduct surveillance on Trump campaign associates.With Democrats taking charge of the committee in January, it’s expected they would not continue pursuing the matter. But Mr. Goodlatte said he believes the incoming chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Sen. Lindsey Graham will continue to investigate what transpired during the 2016 election.“Mr. Comey’s testimony is a critical part of that,” Mr. Goodlatte said.The top Democrat on the committee Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York, who is pegged to become the new committee chair in the incoming Congress, told NBC News the behind-door interview is inadequate and a public transcript doesn’t suffice.“Let Comey testify in public. There is no military secrets here,” Mr. Nadler said on Sunday. “We ought to have openness and accountability to the American public.”Rep. Trey Gowdy, South Carolina Republican, who leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said a public hearing isn’t the solution and suggested video taping Mr. Comey’s deposition could remedy any concern over leaks.“That way the public can see whether the question was fair. They can judge the entirety of the answer,” Mr. Gowdy previously told CBS.	Conservative
QUITO, Ecuador (AP) - Ecuador’s President Lenin Moreno on Monday suspended his vice president, who faces allegations that as a congresswoman she took kickbacks from a staff member.The removal of Maria Alejandra Vicuna came after she requested an unpaid leave of absence until January so she could prepare her defense in a probe started last week by Ecuador’s chief prosecutor. She said she was doing so as not to interfere with government work.Moreno said a top aide, Jose Briones, would occupy the vice presidency, but gave no indication for how long.Briones is Ecuador’s third vice president since Moreno took office last year. The president’s running mate, Jorge Glas, was stripped of his duties after he was jailed and later convicted of orchestrating a plot to demand millions of dollars in bribes from Brazilian construction giant Odebrecht during the leftist  government of President Rafael Correa. Both he and Moreno served as Correa’s vice president.Last week, a government opponent accused Vicuna of receiving regular payments of between $300 and $1,400 from an aide between 2011 and 2013, when she was a lawmaker aligned with the ruling party.Vicuna has acknowledged receiving deposits from a staffer, but said they were not mandatory kickbacks. She said the former aide turned against her with what she called slanderous accusations after she rebuffed repeated requests since September to name him to a government position.Moreno has been trying to clean up Ecuador’s reputation for corruption in the wake of graft scandals that have come to light in the aftermath of Correa’s decade-long rule.	Conservative
SAN DIEGO (AP) - The Latest on corruption charges against U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, a California Republican (all times local):10 a.m.A judge in California has scheduled a Sept. 10 trial date for indicted Congressman Duncan Hunter and his wife on corruption charges.The Republican lawmaker and his wife, Margaret Hunter, have pleaded not guilty to a 60-count indictment alleging they spent more than $250,000 in campaign finance funds on family trips, tequila shots and other personal expenses.Attorneys for all sides told U.S. District Judge Thomas Whelan in San Diego on Monday that they expected the trial to last three weeks.It was Hunter’s first court appearance since defeating first-time Democratic contender Ammar Campa-Najjar in a bitterly fought race last month to hold on to his seat in a region covering much of eastern San Diego County.___9:20 a.m.Indicted Republican Rep. Duncan Hunter is returning to court for the first time since being re-elected to a sixth term amid corruption charges.The California congressman and is wife have pleaded not guilty to a 60-count indictment alleging they spent more than $250,000 in campaign finance funds on everything from family trips to tequila shots.The judge could set a trial date at the hearing in San Diego on Monday morning.Hunter beat first-time Democratic contender Ammar Campa-Najjar in a bitterly fought race last month to hold on to his seat in a region covering much of inland San Diego County.Hunter had been expected to easily win before the indictment.The former Marine has said he is looking forward to the trial to defend his name.	Conservative
George Conway, husband to Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, accused President Trump Monday of violating witness tampering laws.During a Twitter tear on the Mueller investigation, Mr. Trump cheered on former campaign adviser Roger Stone for resisting to work with the special counsel’s team.” ‘I will never testify against Trump.’ This statement was recently made by Roger Stone, essentially stating that he will not be forced by a rogue and out of control prosecutor to make up lies and stories about ‘President Trump,’ ” the president tweeted, “Nice to know that some people still have ‘guts!’ “Mr. Conway, a vocal critic of his wife’s boss, shared the tweet and added, “File under ‘18 U.S.C. §§ 1503, 1512.’ “The two laws Mr. Conway referred to regarded influencing jurors and witness tampering, respectively.Sen. Mark Warner, the vice-chairman of the Intelligence Committee, condemned Mr. Trump’s tweets as a misuse of the bully pulpit.“The President of the United States should not be using his platform to influence potential witnesses in a federal investigation involving his campaign,” the Virginia Democrat tweeted.In addition to potential collusion with Russia, the special counsel’s team is reportedly looking into a possible obstruction of justice case against Mr. Trump, part of which would focus on his Twitter feed.	Conservative
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) - More than 60 percent of Iowa voters cast ballots in last month’s election, the highest percentage for a midterm election in 24 years.Secretary of State Paul Pate released election details Monday showing a voter turnout of 61.55 percent. That’s the highest for a midterm election since 1994.Pate says 1,334,279 people voted, setting a state record for voters in a midterm election.The highest turnout was in southern Iowa’s Ringgold County, where 71.49 percent voted.About 41 percent of voters cast absentee ballots.	Conservative
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) - A conservative Missouri activist has been ordered to follow the state’s lobbying rules, even though he isn’t paid, in a court ruling that could have wide-reaching implications.The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals cited the government’s interest in transparency in ruling last week that Ron Calzone must register as a lobbyist with the Missouri Ethics Commission and file lobbying reports, The Kansas City Star reports.For years, Calzone has met with lawmakers and testified before legislative committees as the founder of the nonprofit group Missouri First. But he didn’t think he needed to register as a lobbyist because he isn’t paid and never gives legislators gifts.Calzone’s attorneys say the decision is a significant strike against the constitutional right to petition the government and have vowed to appeal. They argue that the court’s interpretation of Missouri lobbying law could end up being expansive enough to require everyday citizens to register as lobbyists or face the possibility of a complaint that could lead to criminal penalties.“The problem is that every year dozens of groups go down to the Capitol for lobby days, and they have people designated to speak on behalf of these groups,” said David Roland, one of Calzone’s attorneys and director of Litigation for the Freedom Center of Missouri, a libertarian nonprofit that advocates for government transparency.“And there is no principle distinction between that and what Mr. Calzone does. None,” Roland said. “They are volunteers, but according to this ruling, those people should have to register and report as lobbyists.”Calzone’s legal drama began on Election Day in 2014, when a complaint was filed with the Missouri Ethics Commission alleging that since 2000, when he founded Missouri First, Calzone had violated state law by lobbing members of the Missouri General Assembly on behalf of Missouri First without registering and paying registration filing fees.In September 2015, the commission found probable cause that Calzone had violated two state laws and ordered him to register as a lobbyist, file all required reports, cease and desist from attempting to influence legislation until after filing an annual lobbyist registration and other required reports, and pay a $1,000 fine.In upholding the commission’s decision Tuesday, the court said the state has “an interest in transparency, which includes avoiding the fact or even the appearance of public corruption and knowing who is attempting to influence legislators and public policy.”___Information from: The Kansas City Star, http://www.kcstar.com	Conservative
SAN DIEGO (AP) - A judge on Monday scheduled a Sept. 10 trial date for U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter and his wife on corruption charges, slightly more than a year after their indictments.It was Hunter’s first court appearance since defeating Democrat Ammar Campa-Najjar last month by nearly 4 percentage points for a sixth term representing San Diego’s eastern suburbs in Congress.The congressman and his wife have pleaded not guilty to a 60-count indictment in August alleging they spent more than $250,000 in campaign finance funds on family trips, tequila shots, Costco shopping sprees and other items.Hunter, 41, has called the charges a political witch hunt and said his wife oversaw his finances. She also was his campaign manager.The Republican lawmaker and his wife, Margaret Hunter, entered court separately and had different lawyers. Duncan Hunter declined to speak to the media after the brief hearing as he was followed to his car outside the courthouse.Attorneys for all sides told U.S. District Judge Thomas Whelan that they expected the trial to last three weeks. The judge set a hearing for pretrial motions on July 29.Hunter’s father served nearly three decades as the congressman in one of the few safely Republican congressional districts in California. Republicans hold a 13-point advantage over Democrats in voter registration in the 50th District, which Hunter won by 27 points in 2016.Hunter is one of two congressmen re-elected last month while indicted. Both were early supporters of President Donald Trump.New York Republican Rep. Chris Collins is scheduled for trial in early 2020 on charges he leaked information about a biopharmaceutical company that allowed his son and others to avoid nearly $800,000 in stock losses. He has pleaded not guilty to charges of insider trading and lying to the FBI.___Associated Press writer Julie Watson contributed.	Conservative
PORTLAND, Maine (AP) - Officials in Maine’s largest city say Portland is turning down a $68,000 police grant because of the city’s position on asylum seekers.New language was inserted into the eligibility rules for the federal grant that requires city officials to attest their community doesn’t encourage non-citizens to reside there. The Portland Press Herald reports the existence of the Portland Community Support Fund runs counter to that standard.The public fund helps meet basic needs for asylum seekers who don’t qualify for state general assistance funds. Interim Police Chief Vern Malloch says the city has been getting the federal grant for as long as he can remember. He has been with the department for 34 years.The grant is usually used for police training and technology.___Information from: Portland Press Herald, http://www.pressherald.com	Conservative
Post Bulletin, Nov. 29Deer disease deserves federal policies - and fundingLet it not be said that bipartisanship is dead.U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota whose name keeps coming up as a possible presidential candidate, has joined forces with Sen. Roger Wicker, a Republican from Mississippi, in the effort to stop the nationwide spread of chronic wasting disease in deer and elk.The two senators want the U.S. Department of Agriculture and U.S. Department of Interior to expand federal tracking and mapping of CWD, and to establish universal standards for transporting deer across state lines.We applaud this effort. It’s high time that the federal government took a leadership role against CWD, because deer don’t respect state boundaries. People often refer to “Minnesota’s deer herd,” but deer can roam a long ways, especially during mating season. Earlier this year, researchers captured and put GPS tracking devices on wild deer near Preston - the heart of our region’s CWD “hot zone” - and were stunned by how far some deer traveled in a relatively short time.But the reality is that the fastest way for a CWD-infected deer to travel great distances and cross state lines is at 70 mph in the back of a hunter’s pickup, or in a trailer as it is hauled from one deer farm to another. The carcass of an infected deer contains prions - mutated proteins - that when dumped in a ditch or woodlot can linger in the soil for years and infect other deer. Furthermore, hunters and wildlife officials have long suspected that the interstate transport of live, captive deer and elk has contributed greatly to the spread of CWD since its discovery in Colorado in 1967.The irony here is that Klobuchar and Wicker shouldn’t be the ones leading this fight, because the cat is already out of the bag in their home states.In Minnesota, 18 wild deer have tested positive for CWD far, and the disease has also been found on eight deer/elk farms. The latest round of testing near Preston indicates that the “hot zone” is spreading northwest, so it’s entirely possible, if not probable, that hunters in the Rochester area will soon be required to have all deer tested.Mississippi is much earlier in its battle, having detected its first three cases of CWD this year, but even the most optimistic wildlife biologists agree that once CWD reaches an area, it’s virtually impossible to eliminate it. The best that can be hoped for is to slow its spread and keep the disease at manageable levels.So we’d argue that even after eliminating Hawaii and Alaska, there are 46 senators from 23 as-yet-CWD-free states that should be clamoring for federal leadership, with the goal of keeping the disease from ever crossing their borders.The stakes are high, even if you’re not a deer hunter. Hunting is a $1.3 billion industry in Minnesota, and whitetailed deer are the top game animal pursued by hunters. In Wisconsin, where more than 4,000 infected deer have been found, there has been a 7 percent drop in hunter numbers. A similar decline has happened in the Preston/Lanesboro area.While there is no evidence that people can contract CWD by handling or eating an infected deer, it’s quite apparent that some hunters are erring on the side of caution. Fewer hunters means more deer-car collisions, more crop losses and fewer tax dollars flowing into state coffers.So we’d argue that while federal monitoring of the disease and tighter interstate transport rules would help, the government should do more. Infected states need federal dollars as they fight to contain the disease, because at some point, the financial burden will become too great.This year, Minnesota will spend $1 million to battle CWD. Ultimately, if states have to choose between battling CWD and maintaining their state parks, the odds are they’ll protect their parks. And their trout streams, wetlands, bike trails and forests.We can’t afford to have any states throw in the towel in this fight. CWD is a national problem, and as such it deserves national policies and national funding.___The Free Pres of Mankato, Nov. 20Our View: Legislature: Make divided government workWhy it matters: There are signs that Minnesota could be on the cusp of making bipartisanship work to solve pressing problems and serve all the people.There’s good news on the horizon in Minnesota government, if elected leaders on both sides are true to their words.The elements are in place and the stars may be aligned for a bipartisan, get-things-done session of the Legislature. Minnesotans deserve no less.Two-thirds of the three institutions of Minnesota government have new leaders. The third leg, the Senate, seems to have a new attitude and some new leadership.Gov.-elect Tim Walz has honed his negotiating skills in a legislative environment in Congress and will have a greater understanding and empathy toward that process. It’s a process where it’s important to let debates play out especially in a divided government.The clashes last year between Gov. Mark Dayton and GOP House Speaker Kurt Daudt seemed more incendiary with every interaction. We don’t expect Walz to have that same tone. We’ve got a new starting point in that regard with Walz and new House Speaker Melissa Hortman being from the same party.But it also appears the Walz-GOP Senate relationship may start at a better place also. GOP Senate Majority Leader Paul Gazelka has a partner in Sen. Jeremy Miller, who will be president of the Senate. Miller was a member of the so-called “Purple Caucus” in the Senate, a bipartisan group of lawmakers trying to find common ground on the issues. Miller is also from Winona, an area of the state that is not usually decidedly blue or red politically.Gazelka, unlike Daudt, is a leader who is not prone to heated political rhetoric. The GOP caucus should be more conciliatory as the inflammatory House speaker will be relegated to minority status.Miller uses words like honor and respect and says his membership in the Purple Caucus may have landed him the president’s job. He says relationships he has built in that caucus may be key to building compromises and bridges.The talk of shutdown has been deemed out of the question by both parties. Walz has stated there will be no shutdowns under his watch and Gazelka said he doesn’t even want to say the word. Bravo to both.Both sides are already finding common “framing” themes. We all want to take care of roads and bridges, says Gazelka, without strong words about the gas tax idea that Walz has floated but not really committed to.Then there is the matter of one vote. The GOP has just a one vote majority in the Senate. And the Senate leadership has dubbed its caucus “34Strong,”That framing seems to highlight the idea of sticking together. That may sound good, but we see one vote as a way to keep both parties’ leadership in check in the Senate. One or two votes from either side can derail leadership ideas if they swing too far one way.We believe there are many “one vote” checks on leadership. Sen. Julie Rosen, R-Vernon Center, opposed some of her colleagues last year when she favored some kind of fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers to help fund the opioid crisis.We see Sen. Scott Jensen, R-Chaska, who favored reasonable gun legislation last year when some of his colleagues refused to even have a hearing. Sen. Nick Frentz, DFL-North Mankato, elected in a purple region of the state, could provide a check on Twin Cities Democrats if they swing too far left.Walz will be a chief executive who has respect and knowledge of the legislative process with his tenure in Congress. He has the respect of business leaders, from his years serving the 1st District with major employers.Here’s what leaders need to avoid: Use of weaponizing words. “Total government takeover of health care” is one such phrase for almost any proposal Democrats make on ensuring more people are covered at an affordable price, a common goal.The media also have a role to play by not rewarding such divisive, and we would argue, often inaccurate, phrases.Minnesota has a chance to go back to being a shining example of bipartisan government that works for the well-being of all people.Minnesotans deserve no less.___Minneapolis Star Tribune, Nov. 27Tear gassing kids is a new low on the borderU.S. needs to find humane ways to address a humanitarian crisis.Unbelievably, the Thanksgiving holiday weekend was marked by the United States firing tear gas at migrants - including women and young children - attempting to cross the border to claim asylum.An instantly iconic photo captured the chaos of the scene: 39-year-old Maria Meza, wearing a Disney “Frozen” T-shirt, gripping the arms of her two young daughters - one in diapers - as they raced to escape the clouds of tear gas just behind them.President Donald Trump, who previously opined that U.S. troops elsewhere along the border should shoot at those who threw rocks at them, defended the tear gassing, saying some in the migrant crowd flung rocks at Border Patrol agents. It is hard to believe the agents had no other recourse than to indiscriminately fire tear gas cartridges into the sovereign land of Mexico. Mexican officials rightly have called for an “exhaustive investigation.” More must be known about this incident, which clearly crossed several lines in the severity of the U.S. response.While not lethal, tear gas is a harmful substance that can cause severe eye pain, chemical skin burns, respiratory distress and pulmonary damage. Those effects are magnified in children, who also can suffer trauma from being gassed. Though used in this and other countries for riot control, the use of tear gas in war is prohibited by international treaties.As we’ve written repeatedly, the U.S. has the right and obligation to control its borders. However, there also is little question that Trump’s constant demonization of immigrants in general, his use of the “caravan” as a political prop during the midterm elections and his overly aggressive rhetoric and harsh policies have needlessly escalated the tensions that now exist at the border.Avenues for refugees, asylum-seekers and others who seek paths to legal entry have been constricted needlessly under this president. Mexico has sought - and still seeks - cooperation with this country on comprehensive immigration reform that could head off some of these issues but has yet to find a receptive audience in this administration.Trump and his functionaries have decried parents who would put their children in harm’s way by bringing them to the border. Have they considered the level of fear it would take to force a mother to walk with her children from Honduras to the U.S. port of entry at San Ysidro, California?Border Patrol agents late last week confirmed that one 26-year-old Guatemalan mother of two attempted to scale a border fence there, fell and was hurt when she was impaled by rebar. Her children, ages 3 and 5, were taken into Border Patrol custody. These are among the people Trump has vilified as “criminals” and “rough people.” Other asylum-seekers have said they have no choice but to try again because they fear gang violence and death threats in their home countries.This is a humanitarian crisis, and the U.S. must find a humane way of dealing with it. Trump’s threats to cut off aid to already-impoverished countries and to close off the southern border - with all the economic impacts that would carry for both nations - is a cruel and shortsighted path that will solve little.	Conservative
President Trump railed against his former personal lawyer Michael Cohen after he asked a judge for no prison time.“Michael Cohen asks judge for no Prison Time.” You mean he can do all of the TERRIBLE, unrelated to Trump, things having to do with fraud, big loans, Taxis, etc., and not serve a long prison term? He makes up stories to get a GREAT & ALREADY reduced deal for himself, and get…..….his wife and father-in-law (who has the money?) off Scott Free. He lied for this outcome and should, in my opinion, serve a full and complete sentence.The president’s frustration with his former fixer ramped back up after Mr. Cohen revealed in his latest guilty plea that the Trump Organization was working on a Trump Tower Moscow during the 2016 election.In a deal with the special counsel’s team, Mr. Cohen detailed his work on the “Moscow project” and how he lied to Congress about it as a means of being “loyal” to Mr. Trump.Late Friday, Mr. Cohen’s lawyers asked a judge to show leniency towards their client in light of his cooperation with the Russia investigation.Thursday’s bombshell guilty plea marked the second time Mr. Cohen struck a deal with special counsel Robert Mueller. In August, Mr. Cohen pled guilty to a slew of charges connected to hush money payments under Mr. Trump’s direction.	Conservative
Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez is beginning a final tour of potential 2020 convention cities as he tries to give his party its best shot at toppling President Donald Trump.The DNC chairman, who already has set the 2020 convention for July 13-16, is expected in early 2019 to announce his choice among finalists Houston, Miami and Milwaukee.Perez and a small group of aides will be in Milwaukee on Monday. They are scheduled to visit Miami on Friday and then Houston on December 14. The group is expected to spend about a day in each of the three cities. It’s the second and expected final round of site visits.“These three dynamic and energetic cities have each put forth impressive bids to host the 2020 Democratic convention. We appreciate their work and look forward to next steps in the process,” said Jess O’Connell, the party’s former chief executive officer who is advising Perez on the search.Republicans already have announced plans to gather in Charlotte, North Carolina, where Democrats held their 2012 convention. The GOP will convene Aug. 24-27, keeping with the tradition of the party that holds the White House going second and getting the last opportunity to showcase itself for voters.Democrats opted for an earlier-than-usual convention. Noting the expected large field of candidates, Perez has said he wants no delays in a nominee having the opportunity to unify the party and shift to the general election campaign.For now, Democratic officials are not tipping their hand on any potential convention favorite, insisting they wouldn’t spend time and resources on a second visit to any city that wasn’t still in the running.Perez aides say logistics are the most important factor in the decision. The details go well beyond the arena space that most voters will see on prime-time television, extending to everything from hotel capacity and transportation plans to move thousands of delegates and dignitaries to vistas for television networks and space for inevitable protesters.Beyond those factors, the three finalists hope to provide the party nominee with a compelling narrative about the Democratic Party.South Florida has long been the Democratic anchor in a key battleground state, fueled by a diverse and ever-changing electorate.Wisconsin Democrats, anchored by organized labor, just toppled Republican Gov. Scott Walker and re-elected Sen. Tammy Baldwin to prove the party still has strength in the Rust Belt-Great Lakes region where white, working-class voters propelled Trump to the White House.Texas Democrats point to the recent midterm election - Democrats flipped three GOP-held suburban House seats and Rep. Beto O’Rourke’s surprisingly close loss to Republican Sen. Ted Cruz - as proof that the conservative has an emerging Democratic coalition of city liberals and suburban moderates.Whatever Perez chooses, there is no provable tie between convention sites and November outcomes.Trump won battleground Ohio handily in 2016 after the GOP convention in Cleveland. President Barack Obama won Colorado in 2008 after being nominated in Denver, but lost his second convention state - North Carolina - four years later. President George W. Bush lost both states - Pennsylvania and New York - where he was nominated.–-	Conservative
Stormy Daniels and her lawyer Michael Avenatti have apparently patched things up after she accused him of acting outside of her interests.“Pleased that Michael and I have sorted s– out and we know the accounting is on the up and up,” Ms. Daniels tweeted Sunday evening.Mr. Avenattichimed in: “To all the people that want to divide us for their own agendas: It is not going to happen!”On Wednesday, Ms. Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, told The Daily Beast that her lawyer filed the defamation lawsuit against President Trump without telling her. She also accused him of withholding information about fundraising campaigns.“For months I’ve asked Michael Avenatti to give me accounting information about the fund my supporters so generously donated to for my safety and legal defense. He has repeatedly ignored those requests,” Ms. Daniels told the Daily Beast.“Days ago I demanded again, repeatedly, that he tell me how the money was being spent and how much was left,” she added. “Instead of answering me, without my permission or even my knowledge Michael launched another crowdfunding campaign to raise money on my behalf.”Mr. Avenatti denied the accusation and insisted that the money was going towards her security.The public tiff with his biggest client came as Mr. Avenatti suffered other blows to his reputation after allegations of domestic abuse surfaced.I look forward to a full clearing of my name and disclosure of all of the facts. I have NEVER abused a woman or committed domestic violence against anyone. Any claim to the contrary is completely bogus and fabricated. I am a target. And I will be exonerated.	Conservative
WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court is rejecting an appeal from environmental groups trying to stop President Donald Trump from building a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, even as other legal action against the wall is ongoing.The justices on Monday left in place a ruling by a federal judge in San Diego who rejected challenges claiming that the Trump administration improperly waived laws requiring environmental and other reviews before construction can begin.The judge in the San Diego case was Gonzalo Curiel. Trump criticized Curiel during the presidential campaign for his handling of fraud allegations against now-defunct Trump University. Trump had already proposed a border wall and suggested the Indiana-born judge’s Mexican heritage meant he wouldn’t be fair to Trump in the fraud lawsuit.	Conservative
LIMA, Peru (AP) - Former Peruvian President Alan Garcia said Monday he would cooperate with prosecutors investigating him for possible corruption after Uruguay turned down his asylum request and forced him to leave the residence of its ambassador to the Andean nation.In denying Garcia’s asylum claim, Uruguayan President Tabare Vazquez said there was no evidence to support the politician’s claim that he is being targeted politically.“In Peru the three branches of government function freely and autonomously, especially in this case the judicial power,” Tabare Vazquez said.Around the same time that Vazquez announced his decision in Uruguay’s capital, a silver-colored sedan left his ambassador’s residence in Lima, taking Garcia first to his daughter’s home and then to his mansion in the leafy Miraflores neighborhood.At the home, an aide read a statement in which Garcia vowed to cooperate with prosecutors, saying he had only sought asylum because he had received information that he would be detained despite having never missed several previous judicial citations.“When I am called to testify I will do so promptly, as I already have been doing, and hoping that rumors of my arbitrary detention are false,” the statement said.Garcia fled to Uruguay’s diplomatic mission a little more than two weeks ago after a judge banned him from leaving the country for 18 months as investigators probe allegations he received illegal payments from Brazilian construction giant Odebrecht.Garcia has argued that he was the victim of false testimony by political enemies who told prosecutors he allegedly took bribes from Odebrecht during the construction of Lima’s metro during his 2006-2011 government. He has not been charged.Odebrecht has at the center of Latin America’s biggest corruption scandal since admitting in a 2016 plea agreement with the U.S. Justice Department that it paid corrupt officials across Latin America nearly $800 million in exchange for major infrastructure contracts.The scandal has led to the jailing of numerous politicians across the region, especially in Peru, where former President Pedro Pablo Kucyznski was forced to resign for hiding his past work as a consultant to Odebrecht and Garcia, as well as two other former presidents, Ollanta Humala and Alejandro Toledo, are being probed for allegedly taking illegal payments.Garcia’s request for asylum seemed to have garnered little sympathy from Peruvians accustomed to widespread graft by top officials. Barely a half-dozen die-hard loyalists from his APRA party gathered outside his home Monday shouting support, down from just a few dozen when he took refuge in the ambassador’s residence.But it did produce a sharp rebuke from President Martin Vizcarra, who has made tackling corruption the focus of his administration since taking over from Kuczynski and who has worked to provide Uruguay with information to disprove Garcia’s claims.Jose Ugaz, a former prosecutor who led the country’s highest-profile criminal probe, against former President Alberto Fujimori, said that Uruguay’s denial of Garcia’s request would help cement the rule of law in Peru.“This is a big blow to impunity and corruption,” Ugaz, who also served as chairman of anti-corruption watchdog Transparency International, said in an interview.Garcia, 69, was a populist firebrand whose erratic first presidency in the 1980s was marked by hyperinflation, rampant corruption and the rise of the Shining Path guerrilla movement.When he returned to power two decades later he ran a more conservative government, helping usher in a commodities-led investment boom in which Odebrecht played a major role.This is the second time Garcia has sought to flee to another country amid corruption probes. Following the end of his first government, he spent nine years in exile in neighboring Colombia and then France after his successor, Alberto Fujimori, raided his house and reopened a corruption probe.___Associated Press writer Joshua Goodman in Bogota, Colombia, contributed to this report.	Conservative
Rep.-elect Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez got into a Twitter spat with former Gov. Mike Huckabee — and then went after his daughter.The former Arkansas governor was mocking the 28-year-old democratic socialist for comparing her election this November to the 1969 Moon landing.“Big difference. Moon landing was LUNAR, not LOONEY; Moon landing done by ppl who knew what they were doing…those who elected someone who thought there were 3 branches of Congress did NOT,” he wrote, alluding to one of many miscues on basic civics that the rising Democratic star has made in recent months.Both barrels came firing back.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez started by saying that her platform would require “a level of ambition + innovation on the scale of the moon landing. We’ve been done it before, and can do it again.”Then she got personal.“Leave the false statements to Sarah Huckabee. She’s much better at it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said, going on to call the White House press secretary’s father a political has-been.“Also, you haven’t been a Governor of any state for 10+ years now,” she concluded.She then complained later in the Twitter thread of being ganged up on.“Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universe Have ALL gone after me, just to get lit up,” she wrote.“I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?” she asked.Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universeHave ALL gone after me, just to get lit up.I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?	Conservative
House Republicans on Monday said they have filed a bill that would keep the government running through Dec. 21 and push off an ongoing shutdown battle for a few weeks, as Washington presses pause on official business to mourn the death of former President George H.W. Bush.Congress has already passed legislation to fund about three-quarters of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget next year. That includes funding for the defense, labor, health, and veterans affairs departments.But if lawmakers don’t act before midnight Friday, funding for a number of other departments, such as the departments of commerce, justice, and homeland security, will lapse.The key hang-up is money for President Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall in the homeland security funding bill.Mr. Trump is pushing for $5 billion for the wall, which is in line what the House provided in its DHS funding bill.Democrats say he should accept the $1.6 billion for border security senators included in their 2019 DHS bill.Even still, Mr. Trump indicated over the weekend that he’d likely sign a stopgap extension to give lawmakers more time to negotiate in light of Mr. Bush’s death.	Conservative
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Monday that plans were in the works to scrap subsidies for electric cars and other renewable energy items, Reuters reported.Mr. Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council, said the subsidies could end as soon as 2020. It is part of the administration’s response to General Motors closing plants and cutting jobs in the U.S.President Trump last week threatened to end  electric car subsidies after GM announced five plant closings — four in the U.S. and one in Canada — as it cuts domestic production of sedans.The punishment would have limited impact on GM, however, because the automaker is on pace to sell too many electric cars to qualify for subsidies.Mr. Kudlow said the rollback of subsidies would also include “renewables.”	Conservative
Incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called on Congress Monday to raise salaries for staffers on Capitol Hill, saying that interns and aides are severely underpaid.The New York Democrat took to Twitter to describe eating at a “dive spot” in D.C. where several employees were also working in congressional offices.“It is unjust for Congress to budget a living wage for ourselves, yet rely on unpaid interns and underpaid overworked staff just [because] Republicans want to make a statement about ‘fiscal responsibility,’” she wrote.She also demanded that Republicans pay their staffers more by either cutting their staff or support raising the Members’ Representational Allowance, where the funds for staff salaries is pulled.	Conservative
President Trump’s top economic adviser said Monday he expects rapid action from China on trade concessions to the U.S., including big tariff reductions — maybe to zero — on automobiles.“They put stuff on the table that we have not seen before,” said Larry Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council.He said the commitments by Beijing include cutting tariffs and addressing theft of intellectual property that have topped Mr. Trump’s list of demands.“This is just an enormous, enormous event,” Mr. Kudlow told reports on a conference call.The breakthrough in trade talks included commitments from China for “immediate” action, he said.“So we’ll see,” Mr. Kudlow said. “But I can tell you I’ve never seen that immediately commitment before.”Mr. Kudlow said that the discussions he participated in lead him to believe Beijing would reduce the tariffs on autos from 40 percent to zero.The optimism at the White House stemmed from a truce in the trade war agreed to at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.The U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lower tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.	Conservative
Conservative author Jerome Corsi on Monday filed a criminal and ethics complaint against special counsel Robert Mueller alleging prosecutorial misconduct in the Russia investigation.The 78-page complaint alleges that Mr. Corsi “has been criminally threatened and coerced to tell a lie and call it the truth.”Peter Carr, a spokesman for the special counsel’s office, declined to comment.The complaint was filed to multiple government officials, including acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Jessie K. Liu, Justice Department inspector General Micheal Horowitz and the Bar Disciplinary Counsel.Mr. Corsi’s complaint alleges special counsel prosecutors pressured him to lie. He said Mueller’s team demanded he say he worked on behalf of the Trump campaign as a liaison to longtime political operative Roger Stone and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to coordinate the release of the hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign during the 2016 election.“Dr. Corsi has been threatened with immediate indictment by Mueller’s prosecutorial staff unless he testifies falsely against Roger Stone and/or President Donald Trump and his presidential campaign, among other false testimony,” wrote Mr. Corsi’s attorney Larry Klayman.According to the complaint, Mueller’s team is “knowingly and deceitfully threatening to charge Dr. Corsi with an alleged false statement,” unless he makes false statements about members of the Trump campaign and Mr. Stone.The special counsel’s office has been interested in Mr. Stone’s connections to Mr. Assange, and whether they conspired to leak the emails in an effort to hurt the Clinton campaign.Mr. Klayman, who founded conservative watchdog groups Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch, insists that Mr. Corsi had no advanced knowledge of WikiLeaks’ publishing of hacked DNC emails. Instead, Mr. Klayman contends, his client pieced it together by noticing emails by Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta were missing in the first batch of leaked emails and he assumed it would be in a second data dump.“Employing his professional skills and considerable experience as an analyst and investigative journalist, Dr. Corsi logically concluded that Wikileaks would release Podesta’s emails soon.”In an interview Monday with Newsmax, Mr. Klayman vowed that he will take the case to the Supreme Court, challenging  Mr. Mueller’s authority to investigate alleged ties between Russia and the Trump campaign.“We will challenge Mueller’s constitutional mandate to proceed, which is what the president should have been doing all these months. But we’ll do it,” he said. 	Conservative
The House is not expected to hold any votes for the rest of the week, GOP leaders announced Monday, as Washington turns its attention to the memorial services for former President George H.W. Bush.He will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.A memorial service at Washington National Cathedral is also scheduled to take place Wednesday, to be followed by a service and burial in Texas on Thursday.The Senate is scheduled to gavel in on Monday afternoon, but no votes are expected to be held until at least Wednesday.President Trump announced that Wednesday will be a national day of mourning. Federal employees are excused from work.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer are also asking the White House to postpone a meeting they were to have with Mr. Trump on Tuesday in light of the events surrounding Mr. Bush’s funeral, according to a Democratic aide.Lawmakers are facing an end-of-week deadline to pass new 2019 spending bills and avert a partial shutdown of the federal government.Congress has already passed — and Mr. Trump has signed — legislation to fund roughly 70 percent to 75 percent of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget for 2019.That means regardless of what happens this week, agencies such as the Pentagon, Health and Human Services, and Veterans Affairs are fully funded through September.But funding for the outstanding departments — which include the IRS, NASA and Homeland Security — will lapse if Congress doesn’t act by midnight Friday.Federal employees deemed “essential,” such as Border Patrol agents, would still report to work, though they could face delays in their pay. Others could be furloughed.Negotiators have reported progress on six of the remaining seven individual bills, but are still battling over funding for Mr. Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall.Mr. Trump says he wants $5 billion for wall money — in line with what House appropriators have written into their DHS funding bill — and has indicated that he could try to orchestrate a partial shutdown if he doesn’t get it.Democrats say he needs to accept the $1.6 billion for border security that senators include in their 2019 DHS spending bill.Lawmakers are now talking about approving another stopgap funding bill to keep the rest of the government running past Friday, which would give them more time to negotiate.If no members object, the House and Senate can bypass procedural hurdles to speed measures through.An aide said that while House Democrats favor a one-week stopgap bill, they would likely not object to passing a two-week bill via unanimous consent.Though Mr. Trump has been firm in his demands for $5 billion in wall money, he indicated over the weekend he’d be open to delaying the shutdown showdown beyond this week in light of Mr. Bush’s death.“If they come — which they have — to talk about an extension because of President Bush’s passing, I would absolutely consider it and probably give it,” the president told reporters aboard Air Force One.	Conservative
President Trump has named China hawk Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Representative, to lead trade talks with Beijing.The move was confirmed Monday by White House trade adviser Peter Navarro, another leading advocate of cracking down on China’s trade abuses.“He’s the toughest negotiator we’ve ever at the USTR and he’s going to go chapter and verse and get tariffs down, non-tariff barriers down and end all these structural practices that prevent market access,” Mr. Navarro said in an interview with National Public Radio.Mr. Lighthizer took over the negotiations after a breakthrough at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin, who is closer to the U.S. financial sector and viewed as less aggressive on China, previously had been leading the negotiations.At the dinner, the U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lowing tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.The president’s get-tough tariffs are credited with forcing China to the negotiating table with offers of concessions, something Beijing vowed it would never do.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey will be interviewed behind closed doors by lawmakers Friday morning, according to a House Judiciary Committee aide.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.But Mr. Comey filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly. Mr. Comey’s team believed the closed-door House session is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”He later withdrew his petition on Sunday, agreeing to sit down for the deposition with the ability to release a transcript to the public within 24 hours.Lawyers had told the judge his testimony would take place Tuesday, but the meeting has since been pushed back to 10 a.m. on Friday.According to the committee aide, the deposition was delayed due to the funeral of the late President George H.W. Bush.The 41st president, who passed away Friday at the age of 94, will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.	Conservative
Sen. John Kennedy announced Monday he will not be running for governor of his home state of Louisiana, saying he felt he could best serve his constituents in his current role.The Republican senator, who has become known on Capitol Hill for his witty one-liners to the press, said he would decide whether to jump in the race this week, with local media reporting he was considered one of the favorites.Mr. Kennedy said he wants to focus on the economy, jobs, health insurance, building a strong military and ending government waste as a member of the U.S. Senate.“I am fortunate to sit on powerful Senate committees that provide a venue to do that,” Mr. Kennedy said.He is not up for re-election until 2022.The election for his state’s next governor is set for October, and two people have already joined the race.Republican Eddie Rispone, a businessman, and Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, have already announced their candidacy, but local media reports said had Mr. Kennedy entered the race, he and Edwards would have been the favorites.	Conservative
President Trump threatened to close the southern border Monday and said building the wall would end up saving taxpayers money.“We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “Either way, people will NOT be allowed into our Country illegally! We will close the entire Southern Border if necessary. Also, STOP THE DRUGS!”Congress and the White House are facing a deadline Friday for funding parts of the federal government, although an extension of a week or two in the deadline is likely. Still unresolved is Mr. Trump’s request for more money to build the wall.The president also referred to his $716 billion defense budget as “crazy,” saying he hopes to save money on national security needs later on by negotiating nuclear arms reductions with Russia and China.	Conservative
It was the swiftness and ease with which he operated on the global stage that cemented President George Herbert Walker Bush’s legacy as a great leader who not only protected and advanced America’s interests around the world, but did it in a delicate, nuanced way respected by other powers and future allies.Mr. Bush’s admirers and former colleagues say this was most prominent in 1990, when he and then-Secretary of State James A. Baker moved with stunning speed to build an international coalition that included precedent-setting buy-in from otherwise divided Arab powers to oust Iraqi forces from Kuwait.His biographers have written that the inclusiveness and efficiency of Operation Desert Storm was his “greatest mark on history.”                                                                       SEE ALSO: Bush started a Republican dynasty more powerful, enduring than the Kennedys                                              But students of global affairs know there was actually something else — something much more subtle in the years leading up to the 1991 Gulf War — that truly secured Mr. Bush’s respect as a rare international statesman whose humble, peace-seeking geopolitical touch would impact the lives of millions.President Ronald Reagan may well have changed the world in 1987 when he called on former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down” the Berlin Wall. Yet, as current leaders across Europe have noted in recent days, it was George H.W. Bush who truly closed the book on the Cold War.It was he, they said, whose quiet, behind-the-scenes diplomacy in 1990 persuaded skeptical parties from Paris to London to Warsaw to Moscow to embrace and support the idea of a reunited Germany.                                                                        SEE ALSO: Bush remembered as peerless patriot, patriarch of political dynasty                                              Even as critics in Washington lambasted Mr. Bush for refusing to loudly declare victory in the collapse of a Communist bloc that had so long controlled half of Europe, America’s 41st president was determined to stay the course that the delicacy of the moment demanded.“President Bush’s calmness, leadership and close personal relationships with [then-German Chancellor] Helmut Kohl and Mikhail Gorbachev were decisive in restoring peace and freedom back to so many people across our continent,” European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement over the weekend. “We Europeans will forever remember this.”“He courageously seized the opportunity to end the Cold War,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Saturday in a statement. “He is also an architect of German unity. He supported it from the beginning without reservations. We will never forget that.”Mr. Bush was “a great statesman,” said British Prime Minister Theresa May. “In navigating a peaceful end to the Cold War, he made the world a safer place for generations to come.”The sentiments over the weekend stretched all the way to Moscow, where Russia’s Interfax news agency cited Mr. Gorbachev as recalling Mr. Bush as a “genuine partner.”Even Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has aggravated Washington with Cold War-style provocation in recent years, paid his respects Saturday, referring in a statement to Mr. Bush’s “political wisdom and foresight.”It was also a decisiveness undergirding his foresight that made Mr. Bush so effective as a coalition builder. With regard to the Gulf War, the former president’s closest aides say his decisiveness was born from a confidence that all had been done that could be done to avoid war before finally committing to the use of American military force.“He didn’t want to have a first Gulf War. He did everything he could to avoid it,” former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman and later Secretary of State Colin Powell said over the weekend. “We went to the United Nations, at the very last minute, when the war was about to start, he sent Jim Baker over to speak with the Iraqi prime minister and tell him, ‘You know, you don’t want to see this happen.’”Only when it was finally and fully clear that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein didn’t take the message to heart, Mr. Powell told NPR, Mr. Bush went into decision mode and “it was very clear what the war was all about.”“From the very beginning, it was a war that was defined in terms of what we were going to accomplish, and when it was over, we would come home,” he said. “And that’s exactly what we did … and it was because the president knew what he wanted. He had a specific mission.”‘A remarkable American legacy’With victory secured, the Gulf War’s long-term aftermath was something Mr. Bush would later suggest he was personally bothered by. The ousting of Iraqi forces from Kuwait didn’t lead to the Hussein regime’s downfall in Baghdad, a reality that led Mr. Bush to acknowledge in a 1996 interview that he felt he’d “miscalculated” the Iraqi dictator’s hold on power.Still, in contrast to the messy insurgency that eventually would envelop Iraq following the 2003 U.S.-led invasion authorized by his son, President George W. Bush, the decisiveness and mission clarity of Desert Storm have come to stand as a textbook example of how America can conduct coalition building.Mr. Bush knew of war’s horrors because he experienced it personally as a younger man. He was shot down as a fighter pilot in World War II while completing a bombing run against a Japanese radio tower. Eight others who were shot down in that mission were captured and executed.Such lore added to the depth of Mr. Bush’s character when he entered the House of Representatives in the late 1960s. It seemed that eventual executive and world leadership were inevitable for Mr. Bush when President Richard M. Nixon tapped him as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in 1971.Mr. Bush later obliged when Nixon’s successor, President Gerald R. Ford, asked him to become the chief U.S. envoy to China, a position he would hold until Mr. Ford nominated him to be director of the CIA in 1976.The sobriety with which he ran the CIA is often lost in examinations of his past. The CIA honored him in 1999 by naming its Northern Virginia headquarters the George Bush Center for Intelligence in recognition of his effective and respected leadership in keeping Washington politics from sullying the intelligence community’s work.“We’ve lost a great champion of the Agency — an accomplished Director, faithful advocate, and dear friend — with [his] passing,” current CIA Director Gina Haspel said in a statement over the weekend. “As a heroic Navy pilot in the Second World War, a skilled statesman who deftly managed the collapse of the Soviet Union and liberated Kuwait from Saddam Husayn’s aggression, and a committed citizen who remained engaged in public service throughout his later years, President Bush exemplified the virtues of patriotism, duty, and compassion.”It’s a reverence echoed by others who run America’s foreign and national security policies with the Trump administration.Mr. Bush led “a true life of service,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told CNN. “It’s a remarkable American legacy, and they don’t make them like that very often.”“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” said Defense Secretary James Mattis.“His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence,” said Mr. Mattis. “We will miss him, but at the going down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”	Conservative
He served in World War II as the nation’s youngest Navy combat pilot, surviving a fiery crash over Chichijima in 1944 and earning the Distinguished Flying Cross.Three decades later, he took the helm at the CIA and steered the spy agency out of an “all-time low” period of upheaval and controversy, providing stability and setting a template for leadership that his successors have followed.While his most enduring legacy is having been the 41st president of the United States and the patriarch of a towering political dynasty, George H.W. Bush also made an indelible mark as an American warrior, made history with his military service and left a lasting impression on the U.S. intelligence community.Mr. Bush died late Friday at his home in Houston. He was 94.His name forever will be tied to the fall of the Berlin Wall, America’s victory in the Cold War and the U.S.-led victory over Saddam Hussein’s Iraq in the Persian Gulf War of the early 1990s.But across the military and intelligence communities, officials say Mr. Bush will be remembered for his courage and leadership in the years long before he entered the Oval Office.“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” Defense Secretary James Mattis said in a statement late Friday. “His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence. We will miss him, but at the going-down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”At 18, Mr. Bush joined the military in 1942, months after the U.S. was thrust into World War II after the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. By June 1943, the future president had “earned his wings,” as the military puts it, making him the youngest Navy pilot at the time.Serving in the Pacific theater, Mr. Bush flew torpedo bomber missions off the deck of the USS San Jacinto. In 1944, his plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire that killed two of his crewmen, but he still completed the mission.Mr. Bush bailed out of the aircraft and was rescued by the submarine USS Finback.Even after his lifetime of political service, the 41st president maintained that one of his proudest moments was signing up for the armed forces — and he urged young men and women to follow his example.“Exactly half a century ago  we were at war, and I was graduating from school,” Mr. Bush said during his January 1993 farewell speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. “The speaker that day at Andover was the then-Secretary of War Henry Stimson. And his message was one of public service, but with a twist — on the importance of finishing one’s schooling before going off to fight for one’s country. I listened closely to what he had to say, but I didn’t take his advice.“And that day was my 18th birthday. And when the commencement ceremony ended, I went on into Boston and enlisted in the Navy as a seaman 2nd class,” he said. “And I never regretted it. You, too, have signed up. You, too, will never regret it. And I salute you for it.”After his military service, Mr. Bush married Barbara Pierce in January 1945, graduated from Yale University in 1948, thrived in the oil business and ultimately entered politics, running for election to the House of Representatives in 1966. He eventually exited Congress to serve as President Nixon’s ambassador to the United Nations.In 1976, Mr. Bush took another job that would help cement his pre-White House legacy. Appointed by President Ford, Mr. Bush took the reins at the CIA just a year after shocking revelations that the agency had spied on domestic anti-war groups and even brainstormed assassination plots against foreign leaders.Amid broad distrust in government after the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal, Mr. Bush steered the CIA back on course at a crucial moment in history, restoring some level of public faith in the agency and ultimately leaving a mark as one of its most important directors, despite serving in the post for only one year.“Though his tenure was limited, his accomplishments were not. Bush joined the agency at a tumultuous time when morale was at an all-time low,” the CIA said in a statement over the weekend. “He believed strongly in the mission of the agency, and he believed in the CIA officers serving their nation. As [director of the Central Intelligence Agency,] he immediately established himself as a leader who restored the morale and reputation of the CIA.”Specifically, it was Mr. Bush’s broad experience as a war pilot, member of Congress and diplomat that gave him the political gravitas the CIA desperately needed at the time.“His tenure provided a meaningful and helpful ‘calm between the storms’ for the agency in the 1970s,” the CIA said. “As the first [director] who had served in Congress, Bush had the political influence to reshape the way the agency was viewed among its most important stakeholders — the president of the United States and U.S. policymakers.”	Conservative
The late President George H.W. Bush’s last words before he died Friday night were to his eldest son, President George W. Bush, who he spoke with over the phone.James Baker, former chief of staff to the 41st president, told CNN that just before the president passed away, he spoke to his children and told his eldest son, “I love you, too.”Mr. Baker, who frequently visited Mr. Bush while he was ill, described his passing as “peaceful.”“He used to refer to our relationship as big brother, little brother … that is a characterization I take as quite an honor. I consider him to be my best friend,” Mr. Baker told CNN on Sunday.Mr. Bush passed away Friday night, roughly seven months after losing his wife of 73 years, Barbara Bush, in April.“He really wasn’t ready to go after Barbara died, but by the time he got back here in Houston from his summer … I think he was pretty much ready to go. The quality of life had deteriorated a lot for him,” Mr. Baker said.The late president will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.The last person to lie in state was the late Sen. John McCain, who passed away in August.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey said Sunday he plans to sit down with lawmakers this week behind closed doors, asking the court to withdraw his motion to halt their subpoena.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.He filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly, but said the closed-door session the House has planned is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”“Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” Mr. Comey tweeted Sunday.The deposition is set for Friday.House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte anticipated Mr. Comey would withdraw his legal motion.“The parties have been working together,” Mr. Goodlatte told Fox News. “I think that the strength of the presentation by Tom Hungar, the House counsel, on Friday in the House’s brief is very compelling.”The federal judge who heard from the parties on Friday put off issuing a decision until Monday morning, where he was expected to continue the hearing.But on Sunday, Mr. Comey’s lawyers petitioned the court to withdraw his earlier filing and cancel Monday’s hearing, which the judge granted.“Mr. Comey appreciates the court’s attention to the above-captioned matter, but has now reached an acceptable accommodation with U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary for voluntary testimony,” Mr. Comey’s lawyers said in court papers.Mr. Goodlatte, who is retiring at the end of the year, told Fox News his committee needs to speak with Mr. Comey, so it can wrap up the probe into FBI actions during the 2016 election, and the use of a FISA court to conduct surveillance on Trump campaign associates.With Democrats taking charge of the committee in January, it’s expected they would not continue pursuing the matter. But Mr. Goodlatte said he believes the incoming chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Sen. Lindsey Graham will continue to investigate what transpired during the 2016 election.“Mr. Comey’s testimony is a critical part of that,” Mr. Goodlatte said.The top Democrat on the committee Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York, who is pegged to become the new committee chair in the incoming Congress, told NBC News the behind-door interview is inadequate and a public transcript doesn’t suffice.“Let Comey testify in public. There is no military secrets here,” Mr. Nadler said on Sunday. “We ought to have openness and accountability to the American public.”Rep. Trey Gowdy, South Carolina Republican, who leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said a public hearing isn’t the solution and suggested video taping Mr. Comey’s deposition could remedy any concern over leaks.“That way the public can see whether the question was fair. They can judge the entirety of the answer,” Mr. Gowdy previously told CBS.	Conservative
LIMA, Peru (AP) - Uruguay rejects asylum request by former Peru President Garcia, who sought refuge in consulate amid corruption probe.	Conservative
President Trump touted on Monday a “very strong” relationship with Chinese President Xi  Jinping after the two leaders reached a trade truce over the weekend and predicted it will lead to further cooperation on halting an arms race between China, Russia and the U.S.President Xi and I have a very strong and personal relationship. He and I are the only two people that can bring about massive and very positive change, on trade and far beyond, between our two great Nations. A solution for North Korea is a great thing for China and ALL!I am certain that, at some time in the future, President Xi and I, together with President Putin of Russia, will start talking about a meaningful halt to what has become a major and uncontrollable Arms Race. The U.S. spent 716 Billion Dollars this year. Crazy!Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi agreed Sunday to a 90-day armistice on the mounting trade war that would halt plans for the latest round of tariffs in exchange for China purchasing a large number of American products to cut into U.S. trade deficit.On Monday, the president tweeted that U.S. farmers “will be a very BIG and FAST beneficiary” of the trade truce.“They intend to start purchasing agricultural product immediately. We make the finest and cleanest product in the World, and that is what China wants,” he tweeted.	Conservative
NEW YORK (AP) - A memoir by the late civil-rights activist Dovey Johnson Roundtree is being reissued, and a film version is in the works.Algonquin Books announced Monday that a 10th-anniversary edition of Roundtree’s “Mighty Justice” is coming out next November. Co-written by Katie McCabe, the book was originally called “Justice Older Than the Law” and was praised by Michelle Obama, among others. Meanwhile, Roaring Brook Press plans middle grade and picture book versions and film rights were acquired by Red Crown Productions, with Octavia Spencer as executive producer.Roundtree, who died in May at age 104, was a groundbreaking attorney and minister and the inspiration for Cicely Tyson’s idealistic Southern lawyer in the 1990s TV series “Sweet Justice.”	Conservative
Former Vice President Dick Cheney reflected Monday on the late President George H.W. Bush’s “amazing ability” for “the personal touch.”During an interview on NBC’s “Today show,” Mr. Cheney recounted a moment during the 2004 presidential election night when Mr. Bush spent “a long time” simply chatting with the vice president’s granddaughter.“He walked over to her and said ‘You’re the youngest person here, and I’m the oldest. Let’s chat,’ ” Mr. Cheney said, reminiscing. “She’s never forgotten about that.”Mr. Cheney first served as the Bush patriarch’s secretary of defense before becoming his son’s running mate in 2000. Mr. Bush died Friday at age 94, just months after his wife Barbra Bush passed away.“There was no gesture too small or insignificant in terms of what he was willing to do to make people feel comfortable,” Mr. Cheney said. “He was just one of the most thoughtful people I ever knew.”	Conservative
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) - Democrats have picked a self-described “social justice activist” who runs two stores selling legal products derived from hemp to replace Lt. Gov.-elect Lynn Rogers in the Kansas Senate.                The Wichita Eagle reports that Democratic precinct committee members in Rogers’ district in Wichita selected political newcomer Mary Ware during a weekend meeting. She will serve the final two years of Rogers’ four-year term.Ware runs two CBD stores offering oils from cannabis. Ware said that her top legislative priorities include legalizing marijuana, along with criminal justice reform and expanding the state’s Medicaid health coverage for the needy.She defeated four other candidates. Her opponents included Kelly Schodorf, an attorney and the daughter of former state Sen. Jean Schodorf, who held the seat from 2001 through 2012.___Information from: The Wichita (Kan.) Eagle, http://www.kansas.com	Conservative
ATLANTA (AP) - Georgia’s voters have one more chance to make their voices heard about the state’s election infrastructure.Tuesday’s runoff election for Georgia secretary of state pits Republican state Rep. Brad Raffensperger against former Democratic congressman John Barrow. Neither candidate won more than 50 percent of votes on Nov. 6.Raffensperger has support from President Donald Trump, while Barrow is endorsed by former gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams.At stake in their runoff is the ability to reshape the state’s election system, which came under a national microscope during the recent race for governor between Abrams and Republican Secretary of State - now governor-elect - Brian Kemp.Raffensperger has defended how Georgia canceled the registrations of hundreds of thousands of voters; he says he’ll focus on election integrity and making sure only legal citizens can cast ballots.Barrow says changes are needed. He told The Associated Press in an interview that Georgia does a “pretty good job of keeping people from cheating,” but a “lousy job of making it easier for folks to vote.”Following Kemp’s victory, a political group backed by Abrams filed a federal lawsuit saying election officials “grossly mismanaged” the 2018 election, depriving some citizens, particularly low-income people and people of color, of their right to vote.It’s one of several recent lawsuits challenging Georgia’s handling of elections that the next secretary of state must respond to.Changes will likely include replacing the state’s aging electronic touchscreen voting machines that leave no auditable paper trail. Both candidates say they prefer a system with a paper record.And both candidates say they will work to support county officials while coordinating the patchwork of 159 counties that sometimes interpret election law and administrative guidance in slightly different ways.Another major question facing the candidates is whether either would step aside from overseeing an election they were running in. Kemp was criticized for not resigning while overseeing his own election for governor. Barrow has said he would either resign or recuse himself from official duties as the state’s chief elections officer if he were to run; Raffensperger has said that he doesn’t plan to seek higher office.But one of the most divisive state issues is also being played out at the national level: How to strike the right balance between access to the polls and integrity of the polls.Georgia has been aggressive in cleaning the names of “inactive” voters from its rolls - called “voter purges” by critics.An analysis by The Associated Press found that more than 1.4 million registrations were canceled in Georgia since 2012, with nearly 670,000 cancelled in 2017 alone. Many were from people who moved or died, but others were removed mistakenly, or for simply not voting in several election cycles.Barrow said Georgia is good at preventing fraudulent voting but must do more to expand access.“We should be making it as easy to vote for people as possible, without in any way making it possible for someone to cheat,” Barrow said.Barrow pointed to long lines at some polls, and people who were purged without being informed about it.“There are all kinds of stories that have come out during the last election of all kinds of little things that need to be fixed,” Barrow said.He specifically criticized the way mass cancellations of registrations were handled.“We ought to put at least as much effort in notifying someone that they’re about to be kicked off the voting rolls as we give to somebody before we turn off their water,” Barrow said. “And that involves a lot more than just one postcard.”Calls and text messages sent to Raffensperger’s campaign spokesman by the AP were not returned. The GOP candidate also pulled out of the runoff race’s only televised debate, citing a scheduling conflict.But in interviews and previous debates, Raffensperger has defended Georgia’s maintenance of voting rolls and said he would keep the focus on election integrity and making sure only legal citizens can cast a ballot.During a recent interview on the Shelley Wynter Show on Atlanta radio station WYAY, Raffensperger said he saw no malfeasance in the way Georgia elections were handled. But he said his administration would analyze what could be done to fix any mistakes for the next election.“When I listen to what has gone on this election, there has been an awful lot of hyperbole. People have just spun things up out of whole cloth in many instances,” Raffensperger said.Barrow served in the U.S House from 2005 to 2015. His tenure there required two moves, as GOP lawmakers twice redrew his district boundaries. He was finally defeated in the GOP’s midterm sweep in 2014.Raffensperger is owner and CEO of an engineering design firm. He served as a local elected official in Johns Creek, before serving two terms in the Georgia state House from the same area beginning in 2015.	Conservative
JERUSALEM (AP) - An Israeli company known for its sophisticated phone surveillance technology on Monday rejected accusations that its snooping software helped lead to the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.The NSO Group has faced similar claims in the past that its products were used to stifle dissent in other countries. But the alleged connection to the Khashoggi killing is the most high-profile case to date, drawing new attention to the secretive company’s business practices and the Israeli government’s oversight of private defense contractors.The latest case against NSO was spelled out in a lawsuit filed in an Israeli court Sunday by a Saudi dissident. In the suit, Omar Abdulaziz, a sharp online critic of the Saudi royals who lives in exile in Canada, said he was friends with Khashoggi and that their communications were monitored by the Saudis using NSO software.Abdulaziz said he clicked on a link sent to his phone in June 2018 that exposed his mobile communications to Saudi authorities. The lawsuit says Abdulaziz faced increased harassment by Saudi authorities after he clicked on the link, including the detention of family members in Saudi Arabia.Abdulaziz also believes that his cooperation with Khashoggi was a “crucial factor” in the killing of the U.S.-based columnist for The Washington Post. The men had been working on a project to rein in pro-monarchy Saudi trolls.Alaa Mahajna, a lawyer for the Saudi dissident, said the suit alleges that NSO sells technology to “dictatorship states” like Saudi Arabia to spy on journalists and human rights activists.“The lawsuit proves that by using this technology, Saudi Arabia succeeded to follow after Jamal Khashoggi and his interactions with Omar Abdulaziz,” he said.The lawsuit says Abdulaziz was notified that his phone was compromised by internet watchdog Citizen Lab. It cites news reports and other sources claiming that NSO Group sold Saudi Arabia the technology in 2017 for $55 million. Abdulaziz is demanding about $160,000 in damages and an order preventing NSO from selling its technology to Saudi Arabia.NSO issued a statement calling the lawsuit “completely unfounded.” It claimed the suit was based on inaccurate “press clippings” and showed “no evidence that the company’s technology was used.”“We take an extremely scrupulous approach to the licensing of our products - which are only provided after a full vetting and licensing by the Israeli government,” it said.Israel’s Defense Ministry said it is “meticulous” in granting export licenses, but it declined to comment on its policies, citing security concerns.The NSO Group’s smartphone-hacking technology has emerged as a favorite for authorities seeking to crush dissent across the Middle East and Latin America.The Israeli firm’s software is part of a larger family of malware that allows spies to take remote control of phones from anywhere in the world - turning the devices in targets’ pockets into powerful surveillance tools.The company said its products “are licensed for the sole use of providing governments and law enforcement agencies the ability to lawfully fight terrorism and crime in the modern age.”Founded by Israeli entrepreneurs, NSO was sold in 2014 for $130 million to the U.S. private equity firm Francisco Partners. Today, it employs some 600 people and is believed to be valued at over $1 billion.The secretive company rarely speaks to the media, does not publicly identify its customers and does not even have a website.But a person familiar with NSO said the company keeps tight oversight over its sales. He said the company will not do business with 21 countries, including Russia, China and Turkey, as well as many others blocked by the Defense Ministry.He also said NSO has an “ethics committee” that includes human rights experts and former U.S. officials that must vet every sale. He said the committee has blocked over $100 million in deals over the past three years, though he declined to elaborate. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was discussing inside corporate information.The company says it does not assist its customers in the actual monitoring process. But the person familiar with NSO said the company has a number of safeguards to prevent misuse of its products.For instance, it can restrict in which countries the product will work, and it limits how many people can be targeted by its flagship “Pegasus” product. He estimated that at any given time, there are no more than 150 to 200 “targets” among all of its customers worldwide.“We do not tolerate misuse of our products. If there is suspicion of misuse, we investigate it and take the appropriate actions, including suspending or terminating a contract,” the NSO statement said.NSO has been under the spotlight for months as dissidents, journalists and other opposition figures have claimed the company’s technology has been used by repressive governments to spy on them. These include Mexican and Qatari journalists who have already filed lawsuits against the company and an Amnesty International employee who was allegedly targeted by the software.Any possible use of Israeli technology to police dissent in the Arab world could raise uncomfortable questions both for Israel, which still sees itself as a bastion of democracy in the region, and for countries with no formal diplomatic ties to the Jewish state.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu frequently boasts of warming ties with Arab states, in what is widely seen as a reference to Saudi Arabia. Last month, Netanyahu paid a landmark visit to the Gulf state of Oman. He has promised that there will soon be additional announcements.Any Israeli connection to the Khashoggi killing - even indirect or unintentional - could complicate Netanyahu’s strategy. It also could draw scrutiny to the Israeli Defense Ministry’s opaque export policies.Itay Mack, an Israeli human rights lawyer who is highly critical of Israeli weapons exports, said the Defense Ministry has notoriously lax policies for the lucrative industry, giving Israel an advantage over competitors.“What Israel is offering is no limitations,” he said. He noted that when Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte visited in September, for example, he praised the ease of buying Israeli weapons. “It’s the same story with spyware,” Mack said.Mack filed a petition with an Israeli court last year to halt NSO’s use of its technology in Mexico after reports that it was being used to target human rights activists, lawyers and journalists. The court ruling remains under a gag order.___Associated Press cybersecurity writer Raphael Satter in London and AP writer Areej Hazboun contributed.___Online:	Conservative
WASHINGTON (AP) - President Donald Trump can’t seem to get his facts straight when it comes to the Russia investigation.Facing pressure as his former advisers are caught lying by special counsel Robert Mueller, Trump is launching fresh attacks on the probe as politically biased and Mueller as hopelessly “conflicted.” This runs counter to ethics experts in Trump’s Justice Department who concluded that Mueller - a Republican - could fairly lead the probe into possible coordination between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election.Trump also suggests that the crimes of his longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen, have “nothing” to do with him. That’s also wrong. Cohen was the first to implicate the president in open court of a crime. Last week, Cohen also pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about his efforts during the 2016 campaign to line up a Trump Tower Moscow project, saying he did so to align with Trump’s “political messaging.”Meanwhile, Trump displayed a slippery grasp of the environment as well as trade policy. He also spread around to his millions of Twitter followers a wildly false claim that people in the country illegally get more aid from the federal government than Americans get in Social Security benefits.A look at his statements and the reality:RUSSIA INVESTIGATIONTRUMP, on Cohen: “He was convicted with a fairly long-term sentence on things totally unrelated to the Trump Organization - having to do with mortgages, and having to do with cheating the IRS perhaps. A lot of different things. I don’t know exactly, but he was convicted of various things unrelated to us. …So, very simply, Michael Cohen is lying and he’s trying to get a reduced sentence for things that have nothing to do with me.” - remarks to reporters Thursday.THE FACTS: Cohen definitely was in trouble for what he did for Trump. He pleaded guilty in August to several criminal charges and stated in open court that Trump directed him to arrange payments of hush money to porn actress Stormy Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal to fend off damage to Trump’s White House bid.Cohen said one payment was made “in coordination and at the direction of a candidate for federal office,” and the other was made “under direction of the same candidate.”The Justice Department says the hush money payments were unreported campaign contributions meant to influence the outcome of the election. That assertion makes the payments subject to campaign finance laws, which restrict how much people can donate to a campaign and bar corporations from making direct contributions.It is true that Cohen did not identify Trump, but there was no ambiguity in court documents or in his statement.Cohen’s extraordinary statement at his August plea hearing marked the first time any Trump associate, in open court, has implicated the president himself in a crime.Cohen’s guilty plea last week, meanwhile, featured Trump and conversations he and his family had with Cohen about a possible Russian business deal during the 2016 campaign at a level greater than previously known.Trump is, however, correct that other previous charges which Cohen admitted to didn’t involve the candidate or the campaign and were for tax deception.___TRUMP: “The Phony Witch Hunt continues, but Mueller and his gang of Angry Dems are only looking at one side, not the other. …Mueller is a conflicted prosecutor gone rogue.” - tweet Tuesday.THE FACTS: Trump makes a baseless charge that Mueller is a “conflicted” prosecutor whose team is a bunch of “angry” Democrats.Mueller, a longtime Republican, was cleared by the Justice Department to lead the Russia investigation. The department said in May 2017 that its ethics experts “determined that Mr. Mueller’s participation in the matters assigned to him is appropriate.” The issue had come up because of his former position at the WilmerHale law firm, which represented some key players in the probe.Some on Mueller’s team owe their jobs largely to Republican presidents, while some others have indeed given money to Democratic candidates over the years. But Mueller could not have barred them from serving on that basis because regulations prohibit the consideration of political affiliation for personnel actions involving career attorneys. Mueller was appointed as special counsel by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, a Trump appointee.___THE FIRST BUSH PRESIDENTTRUMP, on the passing of former President George H.W. Bush: “As a young man, he captained the Yale baseball team, and then went on to serve as the youngest aviator in the United States Navy during the Second World War.” - statement Saturday.THE FACTS: Trump mixes up Bush’s timeline, in which he put off college to enlist in the Navy after the U.S. entered World War II. Bush joined the Navy in 1942 upon graduating from Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, at age 18, six months after the December 1941 bombing of Pearl Harbor. He was the youngest pilot in the Navy at the time.Bush received an honorable discharge in 1945 and enrolled at Yale, where he was captain of the baseball team. “A lot of us on the team were veterans and we had come back from the war, so maybe that made it a little less apprehensive,” Bush told The Associated Press in 2007. “On the other hand, it didn’t deduct from our enthusiasm and our desire to win, which we did not do.”___TRADETRUMP: “Billions of Dollars are pouring into the coffers of the U.S.A. because of the Tariffs being charged to China, and there is a long way to go. If companies don’t want to pay Tariffs, build in the U.S.A. Otherwise, lets (sic) just make our Country richer than ever before.” - tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: That’s not how it works. Yes, money from tariffs is going into the federal treasury, but it’s coming from U.S. businesses, not from overseas. Tariffs are paid by the importer, not the exporter or government in another country.Beyond that, tariffs paid by U.S. companies tend to result in higher prices for consumers. So a tariff is a transfer of wealth from business to government, and sometimes from consumers to government as well. It is not a foreign payment to the U.S.___TRUMP, on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement: “The USMCA is the largest, most significant, modern and balanced trade agreement in history. All of our countries will benefit greatly. It is probably the largest trade deal ever made, also.” - signing ceremony Friday.THE FACTS: It’s not the largest trade deal ever made. It covers the same three countries as its predecessor, NAFTA. In contrast, the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations concluded in 1994 created the World Trade Organization and was signed by 123 countries. The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston found the following year that the WTO’s initial membership accounted for more than 90 percent of global economic output.___TRUMP, on the pact with Canada and Mexico:  “This is a model agreement that changes the trade landscape forever.” He also referred to the pact as a “landmark agreement.” - ceremony Friday.THE FACTS: Actually, the pact preserves the structure and substance of NAFTA, which was unquestionably a landmark, whether for better or worse.In one new feature, the deal requires that 40 percent of cars’ contents eventually be made in countries that pay autoworkers at least $16 an hour - that is, in the United States and Canada and not in Mexico - to qualify for duty-free treatment. It also requires Mexico to pursue an overhaul of labor law to encourage independent unions that will bargain for higher wages and better working conditions for Mexicans.But the agreement is largely an incremental revision of NAFTA. Philip Levy, senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs and a trade official in Republican President George W. Bush’s White House, says: “President Trump has seriously overhyped this agreement.”___MANUFACTURINGTRUMP: “Remember the previous administration said, oh, manufacturing jobs, that will never happen. I kept saying, what’s he talking about? Manufacturing, we got to make things, right? They said manufacturing jobs would never come back. You’d need a magic wand. Well, we found the magic wand. And they’re great jobs. They’re high-paying jobs. They’re brilliant jobs. They’re important jobs.” - Biloxi, Mississippi, rally on Nov. 26.THE FACTS: No magic wand has swept across manufacturing.Yes, manufacturing jobs have been added under Trump, but the sector is nowhere close to its old glory.As of October, the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that 8.53 percent of the 149.8 million U.S. jobs were in manufacturing. Back in October 2008, 9.65 percent of U.S. jobs were in manufacturing. Even if factories keep hiring workers, factories are unlikely to return to the prominence of Trump’s childhood because so many other segments of the U.S. economy - such as health care - have grown.In 1946, the year Trump was born, nearly a third of U.S. workers had manufacturing jobs.Growth in manufacturing employment began in President Barack Obama’s second term, when 386,000 jobs were added, and accelerated under Trump, with 416,000 more jobs in his first 21 months.___TRUMP: “Our steel industry a year ago was dead, and now it’s one of the most vibrant anywhere in the world, because we stopped the steel dumping and we put a big tax on. When they steel dump, they can dump all they want, but they pay 25 percent on everything they dump, and our steel now is doing great. Our industry has come back.” - Mississippi rally.TRUMP: “Big Steel is opening and renovating plants all over the country.” - tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: He’s exaggerating the recovery of the steel industry.As of October, there were 381,700 jobs in the manufacturing of primary metals such as steel. That figure seesaws based off commodity prices and global economic performance. But it’s clearly trended downward since 2000 when the sector had 621,800 jobs.It’s difficult to know just how many jobs will be added by newly planned mills. But construction spending on factories has yet to take off significantly after having been in decline between 2016 and much of 2018. Still, the spending has rebounded in recent months. Construction spending on factories has increased 4.3 percent in the past year, according to the Census Bureau.A year ago, the steel industry employed 141,200 people, says the Labor Department. Now, 145,100. That’s a gain of 3,900 jobs during a period when the overall economy added 2.5 million jobs.Steel wasn’t at death’s door a year ago and it isn’t “back” in any historic sense.___AUTOSTRUMP: “General Motors is very counter to what other auto, and other companies are doing. Big Steel is opening and renovating plants all over the country. Auto companies are pouring into the U.S., including BMW, which just announced a major new plant. The U.S.A. is booming!” - tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: This auto industry boom doesn’t exist.Automakers have been steadily hiring since 2010 when Obama was president. But the pace of job gains has slowed considerably since Trump took office, according to the Labor Department. That’s probably a reflection of slowing sales rather than any policy changes by Trump.U.S. auto sales are down 0.2 percent through October largely because of a 13 percent plunge in car sales. Truck and SUV sales are up 8 percent. All the factories GM wants to close make slow-selling cars.The Labor Department found that automakers added 30,600 jobs during Obama’s last year in office. That fell to 8,200 in 2017 after Trump became president. Automakers were on pace before the GM layoffs to add 8,660 jobs this year.Despite the job growth in recent years, auto companies employ far fewer workers than they did in 2000. More than 1.3 million people held auto jobs in 2000, a total that now stands at roughly 970,000.General Motors Co. is not alone in cutting workers. Crosstown rival Ford Motor Co. is just starting to restructure its white-collar workforce, and thousands are expected to be let go by the middle of next year.Also, BMW didn’t announce a major new plant. Its CEO said Tuesday the company is considering a new U.S. engine factory to supply assembly plants in South Carolina and Mexico. The German automaker now imports engines and transmissions from Europe for SUVs made in the U.S., and it’s building a new factory in Mexico.___ENVIRONMENTTRUMP: “You look at our air and our water and it’s right now at a record clean.” - interview Tuesday with The Washington Post.THE FACTS: No, the air isn’t the cleanest ever. The air generally has been getting cleaner since the 1970s, but the downward trend in pollution has made a bit of a U-turn since Trump took office.His Environmental Protection Agency released data that showed traditional air pollution - soot and smog - increased in 2017 and that the air is not the cleanest it has ever been.The days with an unhealthy number of small pollution particles, often called soot and linked to heart and lung problems and deaths, jumped from 2016 to 2017 in 35 major metropolitan areas. In 2017, there were 179 unhealthy soot days, up 85 percent from 97 in 2016. Last year had the most unhealthy soot days since 2011.The number of days with unhealthy smog levels was down from 2016, but higher than 2015, 2014 and 2013.The number of days when the air quality index was unhealthy was 729 in 2017. The number of days is higher than a year because it counts each city’s unhealthy reading on a certain day as one and there are numerous cities involved.Last year’s level was the highest since 2012 and a 21 percent increase over the cleanest air in 2014.___TRUMP:  “I mean, we take thousands of tons of garbage off our beaches all the time that comes over from Asia. It just flows right down the Pacific, it flows, and we say where does this come from?” - Post interview.THE FACTS: Singling out Asia for America’s dirty Pacific beaches is an evasion.Pacific currents do bring some trash from Asia, most noticeably during the 2011 tsunami, but it is rare that scientists can trace trash to a specific geographic location, said oceanographer Kara Lavender Law at the Sea Education Association, who said Trump’s “statement is not supported by the data.”Americans dirty their own coastlines because “we produce double more trash per person than most of the people living in Southeast Asia,” said Jenna Jambeck, a University of Georgia environmental engineering expert who studies marine debris.___SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS, on Trump rejecting a dire White House report’s conclusion on the economic costs of climate change: “This report is based on the most extreme modeled scenario, which contradicts long-established trends. …This is the most extreme version and it’s not based on facts.” - press briefing Tuesday.THE FACTS: She’s wrong. The 29-chapter report actually lays out various scenarios that the United Nations’ climate assessments use. Economists say the cost estimates are credible and may even understate the economic impact.The National Climate Assessment report considers three scenarios in estimating future costs. One is the business-as-usual scenario, which scientists say is closest to the current situation. That is the worst case of the three scenarios. Another would envision modest reductions in heat-trapping gases, and the third would involve severe cuts in carbon dioxide pollution.For example, under the business-as-usual scenario in which emissions of heat-trapping gasses continue at current levels, labor costs in outdoor industries during heat waves could cost $155 billion in lost wages per year by 2090. Modest reductions in carbon pollution would cut that to $75 billion a year, the report said.The report talks of hundreds of billions of dollars in economic losses in several spots. In one graphic, it shows the worst-case business-as-usual scenario of economic costs reaching 10 percent of gross domestic product when Earth is about a dozen degrees warmer than now with no specific date.Economist Ray Kopp, a vice president at the think tank Resources For the Future and who wasn’t part of the assessment, said the economics and the science in the report were sound.Yale economist William Nordhaus, who won the 2018 Nobel prize for economics for his work on climate change, told The Associated Press that his calculations show climate change would cost the United States an even higher $4 trillion a year at the end of the century with a reasonable projection of warming. He said the White House report’s economic conclusions used standard economic modeling.___IMMIGRATIONTRUMP’s retweet: “Illegals can get up to $3,874 a month under Federal Assistance program. Our social security checks are on average $1200 a month. RT (retweet) if you agree: If you weren’t born in the United States, you should receive $0 assistance.” - posted Wednesday.THE FACTS: Wrong country, wrong numbers, wrong description of legal status of the recipients. Besides that, immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally do not qualify for most federal benefits, even when they’re paying taxes, and those with legal status make up a small portion of those who use public benefits.The $3,874 refers to a payment made in Canada, not the U.S., to a legally admitted family of refugees. It was largely a one-time resettlement payment under Canada’s refugee program, not monthly assistance in perpetuity, the fact-checking site Snopes found a year ago in debunking a Facebook post that misrepresented Canada’s policy. A document cited in the Facebook post, showing aid for food, transportation and other basics needs, applied to a family of five.Apart from confusing Canada with the United States, the tweet distributed by the president misstated how much Americans get from Social Security on average - $1,419 a month for retired workers, not $1,200.Overall, low-income immigrants who are not yet U.S. citizens use Medicaid, food aid, cash assistance and Supplemental Security Income aid at a lower rate than comparable U.S.-born adults, according to an Associated Press analysis of census data. Non-citizen immigrants make up only 6.5 percent of all those participating in Medicaid, for example.Despite that, the administration wants to redefine the rules for immigrants to further restrict who can receive benefits and for how long.___Associated Press writers Eric Tucker, Paul Wiseman, Josh Boak, Christopher Rugaber, Seth Borenstein and Colleen Long in Washington and Tom Krisher in Detroit contributed to this report.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd	Conservative
TOKYO (AP) - Former U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on Monday to take concrete steps toward complete denuclearization and gain the trust of the international community if he wants sanctions lifted.Ban, a former South Korean foreign minister, said “this is the time” to achieve North Korea’s denuclearization after nearly a quarter century of unsuccessful efforts, and that the North and the world should not lose this opportunity.“I’d like to really advise the North Korean leader that the world is ready” to help his country, Ban told The Associated Press, specifically citing South Korea, the U.S., China, Japan and Russia. He said denuclearization is important for a better future for the two Koreas, including reconciliation and reunification.“I hope this is the time - please do not lose this opportunity,” he said.Kim sharply raised tensions with nuclear and missile tests last year, but suddenly reached out to South Korea and the United States this year with a vague nuclear disarmament pledge.North Korea is seeking security guarantees from the U.S. and relief from international sanctions.U.S. President Donald Trump and South Korean President Moon Jae-in say tensions have eased significantly since then, but Ban, who is in Tokyo for an event organized by a business group, said the crisis is not over and that North Korea should fully disclose its nuclear weapons inventory to a trusted international organization such as the International Atomic Energy Agency.“The crisis is still continuing because of North Korea’s development of nuclear, missile and weapons program and materials,” Ban said. “It is North Korea which should clearly state and show by taking actions, then I am sure that there will be no reason why the Security Council of the United Nations will continue to impose the sanction on North Korea.”Moon has facilitated a series of high-level talks between the U.S. and North Korea, including a summit between Trump and Kim in June, and has met Kim three times this year. After their third meeting in North Korea’s capital of Pyongyang in September, Moon said Kim agreed to make a reciprocal visit to Seoul this year. If that happens, he would be the first North Korean leader to do so since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, though the plan is still unclear.Trump recently said he is likely to hold a second summit with Kim in January or February. Ban said he hopes the summit will occur at a time when the international community feels confident about North Korea’s commitment to denuclearization.___This story has been corrected to say Ban was in Tokyo to attend an event organized by a business group, not the World Bank.___	Conservative
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - South Korea’s president says U.S. President Donald Trump told him he has a “very friendly view” of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and wants to grant his wishes if he denuclearizes.North Korea has sought security guarantees from the U.S. and relief from international sanctions.President Moon Jae-in’s office quoted Moon as saying that Trump asked him to convey those messages to the North Korean leader if he visits Seoul this year as he promised. Moon spoke to reporters on Saturday aboard his presidential plane en route to New Zealand from Argentina, where he met Trump on the sidelines of a Group of 20 Nations summit.“President Trump asked me to forward to (Kim) these messages; he has a very friendly view of Chairman Kim Jong Un and likes him. He hopes to fully carry out the remaining agreements (from their June summit in Singapore) together with him so that he will make Chairman Kim Jong Un get what he wants,” Moon said.After deriding Kim last year as “little rocket man” and threatening his country with “fire and fury,” Trump has bestowed Kim with praise. In September, Trump called Kim “very open” and “terrific” and said he and Kim “fell in love.”Moon said he and Trump agreed during their meeting that Kim’s trip to Seoul would play a “very positive role” in U.S.-North Korea nuclear diplomacy. Moon said it’s still unclear whether Kim will visit Seoul by the end of this year, and that it’s up to the North Korean leader.Moon, who has facilitated a series of high-level talks between the United States and North Korea including the Trump-Kim summit, has met Kim three times this year. After their third meeting in Pyongyang, North Korea’s capital, in September, Moon said Kim agreed to make a reciprocal visit to Seoul this year. Their two previous summits were held at the countries’ shared border village of Panmunjom.If Kim, a third-generation hereditary ruler, visits Seoul, he would be the first North Korean leader do so since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War. Moon said a visit would convey Kim’s commitment to nuclear disarmament, better inter-Korean relations and world peace.After sharply raising tensions with nuclear and missile tests last year, Kim abruptly reached out to Moon and Trump with a vague nuclear disarmament pledge. Subsequent nuclear diplomacy hasn’t made headway since the U.S.-North Korea summit in June. But both Moon and Trump say fears of war on the Korean Peninsula have eased sharply.Trump said on Air Force One while returning to Washington from Argentina that his next meeting with Kim would likely happen in January or February. He said there were three sites under consideration, but declined to name them.	Conservative
ANALYSIS/OPINION:It has been nothing short of miraculous in this new season of Advent to hear all the Hosannas and applause for our recently departed former President George H.W. Bush.In The New York Times, Mr. Bush was heralded for his “uncommon grace.”The Washington Post called him a “giant of a man.”“The most kind and considerate person I’ve ever known.”“The most beautiful creature I had ever laid eyes on.”Not your typical remembrances from jaded politicos about mere mortals. Especially if that mortal happens to be a Republican politician.Where were all these lofty accolades when Mr. Bush was alive? Where was all this love when he was president? Where was this towering regard for the man when he was losing his re-election campaign in 1992?Oh, that’s right. The press lies. And there is no time to lie about someone like once they are dead and no longer pose any threat.When President Bush was alive and still a threat in politics, he was scorned and ridiculed by the press.He was doddering and out-of-touch. Patrician, they called him. A buffoon who barfed in the lap of the Japanese prime minister during a state dinner.Even in later years, long after Mr. Bush no longer posed any real threat, the press ran with ridiculous stories accusing Mr. Bush of being an iron sides groper. Yes, this would be the same man that the media sided against in 1992. To help elect Bill Clinton.That would be the same Bill Clinton credibly accused of rape by numerous respectable and reliable women. Whatever.All of this fawning praise for George H.W. Bush certainly rings hollow by any standards. Then it all clicks and makes sense again.Even on the eve of Mr. Bush’s state funeral, this is not about George H.W. Bush. This is all about the current occupant of the White House, President Trump.We all know how much the press hates Donald Trump, at least now that he is president. They despise him — and those who support him — so deeply that by comparison, George H.W. Bush was a man of “uncommon grace.”Giant of a man. Most kind and considerate. Most beautiful creature.Even the ridiculously partisan and myopically political “Saturday Night Live” paid tribute to Mr. Bush. Then, of course, they revealed their true selves by reprising the angry Alec Baldwin in his unfunny role of President Trump with inexplicably puckered lips.The Washington Post, too, neared the line with an editorial in which they “mourn George H.W. Bush” — “and the presidency’s loss of dignity.”Get it? Sure, they are sorry to see George H.W. Bush go. But, mainly, they just hate President Trump.One of the paper’s dimmest writers — the vacuous and principally unburdened Max Boot — was dispatched to put a fine point on the real reason for the season.George H.W. Bush, he opined, “The anti-Trump.”Well, there it is. All the sudden praise, all the accolades, this surprise love affair with George H.W. Bush. It is all just another vehicle for demonstrating their hatred for Donald Trump.It is true that Mr. Trump is certainly cut from a different cloth than was Mr. Bush. He comes from a different family from a different side of the track or river or whatever.But, read my lips: Whatever family Mr. Trump comes from, if he keeps on keeping his campaign promises, he will get himself re-elected president. And that will be just one more way Mr. Trump was different from Mr. Bush.• Contact Charles Hurt at [email protected] or on Twitter @charleshurt.	Conservative
AUSTIN, Texas — U.S. leaders say Vladimir Putin used a familiar cyber playbook to “muck around” in the midterm elections last month, but intelligence officials and key lawmakers believe a much more sinister, potentially devastating threat lies just down the road — one that represents an attack on reality itself.Policy insiders and senators of both parties believe the Russian president or other actors hostile to the U.S. will rely on “deep fakes” to throw the 2020 presidential election cycle into chaos, taking their campaign to influence American voters and destabilize society to a new level.The eerie process, which relies on cutting-edge, deep-learning algorithm technology, produces high-quality audio and video of individuals saying things they never said or doing things they never did. The phony video, analysts say, will be virtually indistinguishable from real footage, mimicking voices, speaking patterns, facial expressions and surroundings to a frighteningly realistic degree.U.S. officials attending a high-level national security forum last week say the technology is the next major threat to American elections and potentially to democracy itself, and analysts say the nefarious possibilities are virtually endless.U.S. military researchers see deep fakes as a top priority, and lawmakers say cooperation among the armed forces, technology sector and Congress will be necessary to counter them.“We are heading to an era where deep fakes technology is going to cause real chaos,” Sen. Ben Sasse, Nebraska Republican, told a room full of military, intelligence and national security officials Friday during the annual Texas National Security Forum.“It’s going to destroy human lives, it’s going to roil financial markets, and it might well spur military conflicts around the world,” said Mr. Sasse, echoing what military and intelligence officials say privately. “When deep fakes technology produces audio or video of a global leader saying something or ordering some attack that didn’t happen.  You’re going to have to actually have flesh-and-blood humans who have a little bit of a reservoir of public trust who can step to a camera together and say, ‘I know that looked really real on your TV screen. But it wasn’t real.”The use of deep fakes — examples of which have been put together by researchers at American universities who say it’s vital to understand the technology before it is weaponized against the U.S. — represents an escalation by Russia, officials say.Moscow’s 2016 strategy to influence American elections centered on planting fake news stories and using hosts of bots to bombard Twitter, Facebook and other social media outlets with content. That approach continued this year, contributing to a broader worsening of the relationship between Washington and Moscow.“There’s no doubt the relationship has worsened,” Defense Secretary James Mattis said over the weekend. He added that Mr. Putin tried “again to muck around in our elections just last month, and we are seeing a continued effort along those lines.”“It’s continued efforts to try to subvert democratic processes that must be defended,” the defense secretary said.Military officials say, the approach of Russia — and potentially China — will center on using the most advanced, difficult-to-detect technological tools to make Americans question what is real.“Our adversaries don’t conduct information warfare as much as a war on information, undercutting legitimacy of all comers, including governments,” Gen. Raymond A. Thomas, head of U.S. Special Operations Command, told the national security conference Friday.Deep fakes have come to the forefront only recently in the U.S. political realm, but they are already impacting American society. The technology, for example, has been used to produce phony sex videos of actress Gal Gadot, among others.Deep fakes have been on the military’s radar for years. According to information obtained by the Canadian Broadcasting Corp., the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) — the Pentagon’s research arm — spent at least $68 million over the past two years developing ways to identify and counter deep fakes.News outlets also see deep fakes as a looming nightmare. Top editors at The Wall Street Journal said last month that they have launched an “internal deep fakes task force” to train reporters and editors how to spot computer-generated footage.Political implicationsFrom a political perspective, analysts say, the phony footage is the natural conclusion of the strategy Russia used in 2016. That strategy could be much more effective in the 2020 cycle by adding deep fakes video footage to the mix.What’s worse, Russia could provide an easy-to-follow template for anyone who wants to push a particular storyline or discredit an opponent, potentially poisoning the political process by calling reality into question.“What comes next? We can expect to see deep fakes used in other abusive, individually targeted ways, such as undermining a rival’s relationship with fake evidence of an affair or an enemy’s career with fake evidence of a racist comment,” University of Texas law professor Robert Chesney and University of Maryland law professor Danielle Citron wrote in a recent post for Lawfareblog.com.“Blackmailers might use fake videos to extract money or confidential information from individuals who have reason to believe that disproving the videos would be hard,” they wrote. “All of this will be awful.  But there’s more to the problem than these individual harms. Deep fakes also have potential to cause harm on a much broader scale — including harms that will impact national security and the very fabric of our democracy.”The possibilities seem endless. Mr. Chesney and Ms. Citron cited some potential uses, including fabricated videos of officials taking bribes, making racist remarks or meeting with criminals; fake footage of soldiers slaughtering civilians in a war zone, thereby undermining public support for the conflict; or phony video of a nuclear strike, biological attack or natural disaster, creating panic among the public.On a micro level, Sen. Mark R. Warner, Virginia Democrat, told an audience at the security forum that he believes Russia will “marry cyber and disinformation,” combining more traditional cyberhacking with deep fakes technology to create frighteningly personal attacks.“They will go out and use cybertools to hack into an entity like an Equifax company that has troves of personal information on lots of Americans, contact us with personal information that makes you think, ‘Oh, my gosh, I should open this because they know my mom’s maiden name or know my Social Security number,’” said Mr. Warner, vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.He spoke alongside Sen. Richard Burr, North Carolina Republican and committee chairman, and used his colleague as an example.Upon opening the email, Mr. Warner said, “You’ll see  deep fakes technology where you’ll see a digital image of Richard Burr’s voice and his face communicating with you. But that won’t be Richard at all.”Some lawmakers seem keen to find a legislative solution, such as a law requiring official videos of prominent individuals to be labeled in some way.But there is skepticism that any of those Washington-based solutions would work, given the speed of technology and remarkable ability of hackers and cybercriminals to develop more innovative methods.	Conservative
Major Garrett, chief White House correspondent for CBS, has a new book out, and the title tells all: “Mr. Trump’s Wild Ride: The Thrills, Chills, Screams, and Occasional Blackouts of an Extraordinary Presidency.”Indeed, Donald Trump’s actual presidency has been a boneshaker for journalists who were unprepared for a billionaire commander-in-chief who is a canny denizen of the media and entertainment realm, and unafraid to push back.Mr. Garrett — who has covered the executive branch for 17 years — noticed.“His goal was to sift through the mountains of distracting tweets and shrieking headlines in order to focus on the most significant moments of Trump’s young presidency, the ones that Garrett believes will have a lasting impact,” explains St. Martin’s Press, the publisher.The Washington Post calls Mr. Garrett’s book “an early draft of our current history,” while Kirkus Reviews cited the author’s analysis of Mr. Trump’s own “coarsening effect on political dialogue.”Mr. Garrett also notes the president’s place in it all.“Whatever you think of Trump as a person or president, he is the most media-savvy president since Ronald Reagan,” the author wrote.“The media savvy reference was to Trump’s social media skills — the point being Reagan was a master of the medium of his time, network television, and Trump is a master of the medium of his age — Twitter, Facebook and the like,” Mr. Garrett tells Inside the Beltway.“Trump’s Twitter habits have evolved slightly and remain a dominant voice in his presidency — driving news coverage and revealing his state of mind. That remains catchy and compelling. The news media sifts all tweets and treats them as the news events they are but continues to struggle in weighting its coverage of tweets against other long-lasting changes Trump is bringing about, specifically in deregulation, nominations/confirmations to federal courts and administrative changes to Obamacare and immigration,” he says.“In future years, I predict the news media will conclude it was preoccupied with tweets and less focused on structural Trump-generated changes. That is likely to reinforce my point that Trump was a master of the medium of his time,” the author says.REMARKABLE PARTNERSHIP’ OF REAGAN/BUSHFred Ryan, chairman of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Institute offered thoughts on the death of George H.W. Bush — deeming him a “true gentleman who embodied the nobility of public service.”The productive team of Reagan and then-Vice President Bush were in office together eight years.“They forged a remarkable partnership. As they reignited the U.S. economy, battled tyranny across the globe, and restored America’s pride and purpose, President Reagan relied on his vice president’s calm, strength, loyalty, and wisdom. In all that the administration achieved, President Reagan once remarked, “no one has been closer to my side and has contributed more to our success than George Bush,’” says Mr. Ryan.“As president, George Bush built on this legacy, steering America through challenging times at home and abroad. Respectful of others, thoroughly devoted to service, and gracious even in defeat, he also solidified his reputation for integrity and decency,” he notes.Presidential historian and Reagan biographer Craig Shirley also recalls the legacy of George H.W. Bush.“When I think of him, I am reminded of Jimmy Stewart’s ‘It’s a Wonderful Life.’ Every step of his life was well-lived, was a new adventure, was a new challenge. He never shirked or turned down a difficult assignment but met them all, faced them all and made the most of them, always with grace and courage. George Herbert Walker Bush was a hero for our time and for all time,” said Mr. Shirley.SNL HEADLINES OF NOTERows of numbers reflecting TV ratings can get tedious. Sometimes, headlines are more revealing. Consider just a few for NBC’s “Saturday Night Live”:• “‘Saturday Night Live’ Ratings Slip With Host Claire Foy” (Deadline Hollywood, Dec. 2)• “Weekend Update: Why ‘Saturday Night Live’ has lost its Trump-bump glory” (USA Today, Nov. 30)• “‘Saturday Night Live’ ticks down” (TV By the Numbers, Oct. 14)• “How ‘Saturday Night Live’ Became a Grim Joke” (New York Magazine, Oct. 1)• “‘SNL’ Struggles to Find Its Identity in the Era of Trump Fatigue” (Vanity Fair, May 17)• “Rob Schneider Says Alec Baldwin’s Trump is Hurting ‘SNL’” (Hollywood Reporter, April 27)THE PRESIDENT ON HANUKKAH“For eight nights, Jewish families and friends will come together to engage in the lighting of the menorah. This special tradition started more than 2,000 years ago during the rededication of the Holy Temple in Jerusalem, which followed a trying period when Jews were persecuted for practicing their faith,” President Trump says in his message for Hanukkah, which began Sunday.“Unfortunately, Jews today continue to face many different forms of violence, hatred, and bigotry around the globe. We remember all those from the Tree of Life — or L’Simcha Congregation — whose lives were tragically taken in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, this past October. As one Nation, we pledge our continued love and support for the victims, their families, and the community, and we pray that the victims’ families find some measure of peace and comfort during this holiday season. Over the coming days, may the warming glow of each candle on the menorah help fill homes and hearts with love and happiness. Together, we reaffirm the truth that light will always break through the darkness. We send our very best wishes for a blessed and happy Hanukkah,” Mr. Trump says.POLL DU JOUR• 56 percent of U.S. voters say building a border wall along the U.S.-Mexico border should be a priority for Congress; 77 percent of Republicans, 55 percent of independents and 35 percent of Democrats agree.• 55 percent say building a border wall is not an important enough issue to prompt a government shutdown; 34 percent of Republicans, 61 percent of independents and 74 percent of Democrats agree.• 31 percent say building a wall is an important enough issue to prompt a government shutdown; 49 percent of Republicans, 24 percent of independents and 14 percent of Democrats agree.• 15 percent are undecided about a shutdown; 17 percent of Republicans, 15 percent of independents and 12 percent of Democrats agree.Source: A Politico/Morning Consult poll of 1,957 registered U.S. voters conducted Nov. 15-18.• Follow Jennifer Harper on Twitter @HarperBulletin	Conservative
The Supreme Court is set to hear a case Thursday on whether the states and the federal government can separately charge someone with the same crime — but some of President Trump’s opponents fear the justices will end up granting the president a back-door power to shield his allies.The case involves a two-time felon nabbed on gun charges, and the legal dispute before the court is whether the federal government and the state can bring separate charges for the same offense.Michael Conway, former counsel for the House Judiciary Committee during its probe into President Richard Nixon, says if the justices rule that only one set of charges can be brought, it would mean Mr. Trump could pardon his allies from federal crimes and shut out the chance that states could bring their own charges.Other legal analysts dismiss those fears, saying even if the high court were to rule that two sets of charges amount to double jeopardy in violation of the Fifth Amendment, it’s not likely to crimp special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe and would not stop enterprising state prosecutors from figuring ways to bring charges.All of that is likely far from the mind of Terance Gamble, who was pulled over in Alabama in 2015 for a broken taillight. He was found to have marijuana and a firearm — a crime in itself, given his felony conviction for second-degree robbery.The state prosecuted him for the gun violation, and he served a year’s prison time. The federal government also prosecuted for the gun violation and won a second sentence, which Gamble is serving at a high-security federal prison in Texas. He’s scheduled for release in February 2020.His legal team says the two prosecutions constitute double jeopardy.The federal government says it’s allowed under what’s known as the separate sovereigns exception, which the justices in earlier cases have ruled as valid.Ilya Shapiro, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, which supports limited government, said that made sense years ago because federal laws had so little overlap with the states’. That’s changed now, he said.“The federal criminal code has exploded, so there is now a lot of overlap between the potential state and federal prosecution,” Mr. Shapiro said.Both a U.S. district and a federal circuit court of appeals have rejected Gamble’s arguments, citing the separate sovereigns doctrine.He’s asking the Supreme Court to undo more than 150 years of cases, dating as far back as 1852, that have defended the separate sovereigns, the Congressional Research Service says.Should Gamble prevail, it could mean only one prosecution can stem from the same criminal behavior.Mr. Conway is a leading voice arguing that if that’s the case, then Mr. Trump could issue federal pardons for criminal behavior that would prevent states from filing charges for that same behavior, due to double jeopardy. If a Trump aide were to be prosecuted for fraud at the federal level and then pardoned, that aide would be shielded from state charges if they would stem from the same set of facts.He warned about the potential during the confirmation of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, predicting the court will end up ruling 5-4 to limit prosecutions.“If you believe that Kavanaugh is going to be a supporter of the president, then you would think he is going to join the group to overrule it,” Mr. Conway told The Washington Times.The case has drawn attention beyond legal circles. The Congressional Research Service said a ruling for Gamble could “indirectly strengthen the president’s pardon power.”Snopes.com, the fact-checking website, also has determined that claims saying Justice Kavanaugh could deliver stronger pardon power to the president to be true.But Brianne Gorod, chief counsel for the progressive Constitutional Accountability Center, says the pardon concern is overstated.“As an initial matter, a pardon on federal charges would, if anything, only block state prosecutions for the ‘same offense,’” Ms. Gorod said, adding that leaves room for states to go after other, similar charges.She note that the high court has ruled that two offenses are not the same unless they require proof of the exact same facts.Both she and Mr. Shapiro filed a friend of the court brief in favor of Gamble.“The unlikely alliances on this issue also reflect a shared concern among many progressives and conservatives that there are profound problems in our criminal justice system — one manifestation of which is people being sentenced to jail time twice for the same offense,” she said.Mr. Shapiro predicted the ruling will not come down to a 5-4 ideological split, pointing to the diversity of people backing Gamble’s claim.	Conservative
Former and current members of President Trump’s legal team have compiled research to make the case that former FBI Director James B. Comey misled Congress in his testimony and is not a reliable witness for special counsel Robert Mueller.The lawyers last year tried to persuade Mr. Mueller to investigate Mr. Comey, his former colleague, to no avail.The Trump-Comey war took on new dimensions last week as Mr. Mueller won a guilty plea from former Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who admitted to lying to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence about a proposed election-year Trump Organization Moscow hotel deal.                                                                       SEE ALSO: James Comey to comply with subpoena, sit down with lawmakers behind closed doors                                              “The Cohen plea of lying to Congress by the special counsel raises the very serious question as to why the special counsel has refused to investigate and prosecute the false statements and testimony of James Comey, the main accuser of the president, before the Senate Judiciary and intel committees,” former Trump attorney John Dowd told The Washington Times.Mr. Dowd and his colleagues filed a complaint with the Justice Department and Mr. Mueller last year. It says, in part, that Mr. Comey was dishonest in May 2017 when he said he never took steps for FBI surrogates to leak stories about Mr. Trump to the news media.The Washington Times showed the complaints to Mr. Comey’s legal team, which didn’t respond.In a court filing to quash a Republican congressional subpoena, Mr. Comey rejected as untrue a charge from Mr. Trump that he had leaked classified information.Trump supporters say that if Mr. Mueller can target Mr. Cohen for lying, then why doesn’t the Justice Department go after others? They mention not only Mr. Comey but also James R. Clapper, former head of national intelligence; Democratic attorney Michael Avenatti; dossier creator Christopher Steele; and his handler, Fusion GPS founder Glenn R. Simpson.Of the four in addition to Mr. Comey, three involve public charges from Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, Iowa Republican. They are: Mr. Clapper. The Barack Obama appointee testified before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in 2013 that the National Security Agency doesn’t “wittingly” spy on Americans in the United States.The testimony was “clearly erroneous,” as he admitted later in a letter. The NSA collects bulk domestic phone records and some internet communications.In retirement, Mr. Clapper is a prime Trump critic.“I really question his ability to — his fitness to be — in this office,” he said on CNN. “I worry about, frankly, access to the nuclear codes.” Mr. Avenatti. A fierce Trump critic, the lawyer presented sworn statements to the Senate Judiciary Committee on behalf of Julie Swetnick, who made a series of sensational gang rape charges against then-U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett M. Kavanaugh. She later retracted some of the charges.Mr. Grassley sent a criminal referral to the Justice Department accusing Mr. Avenatti of a conspiracy to submit false statements.Mr. Avenatti, who also represents porn actress Stormy Daniels in her claim of having had an affair with Mr. Trump, dismissed Mr. Grassley as “incompetent” and welcomed an investigation. Mr. Steele. The former British spy was paid by the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee to dig up dirt on Mr. Trump. He relied on a number of Kremlin sources to level charges for a dossier in his effort to destroy the Trump campaign.Mr. Grassley sent a criminal referral to the Justice Department, saying Mr. Steele lied to the FBI during the election campaign by telling agents he had not spoken to the news media when in fact he had. Based on his word, the FBI relied on a Yahoo news story to bolster a wiretap warrant only to learn later that Mr. Steele was its source. Mr. Simpson. Mr. Grassley sent a letter to a Democratic senator saying Mr. Simpson’s committee testimony conflicted with an FBI report. Mr. Simpson testified that he had no anti-Trump clients after the November 2016 election.But former Senate Democratic aide Daniel Jones, who, like Mr. Simpson, is an opposition research specialist, told the FBI last year that he had raised $50 million from donors to investigate Mr. Trump and hired Mr. Simpson’s firm.Trump supporters save their most intense wrath for Mr. Comey, who has emerged as a chief Trump accuser in a memoir and in testimony since the president fired him in May 2017.As FBI director, Mr. Comey testified that he had never leaked information to the press or arranged for surrogates to leak.After his firing, he orchestrated an elaborate leak of his memos for the record to The New York Times, using a middleman. They represented his same-day notes of his one-on-one meetings with the president. Among the charges, he accused Mr. Trump of trying to stifle an investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.Mr. Comey said he leaked the memos to force the appointment of a special counsel, which happened days later. Mr. Comey then became a witness against Mr. Trump for Mr. Mueller, his predecessor as FBI director. As deputy attorney general, Mr. Comey worked closely with Mr. Mueller during the George W. Bush administration.In June 2017, Marc E. Kasowitz of New York, then a Trump attorney, sent a hand-delivered, 15-page letter to Mr. Mueller listing a number of complaints against Mr. Comey and asking for an investigation. The letter’s purpose was to disparage Mr. Comey as a credible witness.One letter topic was “Comey’s Pattern of Inaccurate and Incomplete Testimony.”“Mr. Comey has exhibited a pattern of exaggerated, embellished and materially incomplete and self-serving testimony that cripples the credibility of his accounts on matters large and small,” Mr. Kasowitz wrote.‘Unlawful conduct’Mr. Kasowitz said Mr. Comey recounted his Trump meetings with “surrogates” at the FBI in March 2017. Two days after he was fired, surrogates “as he and they have previously planned to do” leaked details to The New York Times about a private dinner Mr. Comey had with the president the previous January, Mr. Kasowitz said. The story matched Mr. Comey’s later description in congressional testimony.As to Mr. Comey’s May 2017 Senate testimony that he never facilitated Trump leaks while director, Mr. Kasowitz wrote: “While Mr. Comey’s testimony might have been technically correct, it was plainly incomplete and misleading to not have disclosed that he had, in fact, leaked this information to surrogates for the obvious purpose of leaking it in the future in the event he were removed as FBI director.”Mr. Kasowitz surmised that Mr. Comey’s surrogates must have leaked details of the Trump Tower meeting with the president-elect since the only participants were Mr. Comey and Mr. Trump.Mr. Dowd told The Washington Times that Mr. Mueller informed him in August 2017 that there would be no investigation of Mr. Comey.Mr. Dowd then sent a letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who appointed Mr. Mueller. The letter’s subject line was “Request for Federal Grand Jury Investigation of Former Director James B. Comey.”“It is particularly troubling that it was Mr. Comey’s plainly deliberate, unlawful conduct and false congressional testimony which precipitated your appointment of Special Counsel Mueller,” Mr. Dowd wrote. “Indeed, Mr. Comey publicly bragged about it.”Mr. Rosenstein replied via an aide that the Justice Department doesn’t confirm or deny investigations.‘Error in judgment’It is not only Mr. Trump’s legal team complaining about Mr. Comey’s conduct.Corey R. Lewandowski, former Trump campaign manager, tweeted Friday: “U.S. judge delays ruling on ex-FBI director’s request to quash Republican subpoena. Why doesn’t Lyon’ Jim want to testify? He has lied repeatedly to Congress. When will he be prosecuted?”Mr. Comey last week lashed out at House Republicans in a motion filed in U.S. District Court to quash their subpoena.A Republican-led House Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform task force wanted him to testify behind closed doors on how the FBI launched and conducted its Trump-Russia investigation. Mr. Comey said Sunday that he will testify as requested on Tuesday. Republicans said a private session is appropriate so he can answer questions dealing with classified matters.In their court filing, Mr. Comey’s attorneys referred to “a poisonous combination of presidential tweets and the selective leaking that has become standard practice for the joint committees.”“The public record shows members of the Joint Committee leaking what suits them and maintaining the secrecy only of what does not,” they said. Republicans “plan to make him the next victim of their unauthorized and abusive tactics,” the filing said.In the ongoing investigation into Russia election interference, the FBI relied on the Democrat-financed dossier written by Mr. Steele.Republicans say Mr. Steele unleashed a number of bogus charges against Mr. Trump and his aides based on disinformation from the Kremlin.Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz is investigating the FBI’s Russia probe and particularly the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act wiretap on Trump campaign volunteer Carter Page. The FBI’s warrant applications to a judge were based largely on the unverified dossier.The Horowitz report on the FBI’s investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s emails found Mr. Comey guilty of insubordination for hiding from Justice officials his plans to unilaterally clear the Democratic presidential candidate.Mr. Comey also committed “a serious error in judgment” by sending a letter to Congress without Justice approval, Mr. Horowitz said. The inspector general also said Mr. Comey violated Justice guidelines by using his personal email account to conduct FBI business.Cohen, Mr. Trump’s personal attorney for more than a decade and now a main adversary, pleaded guilty last week to providing the wrong date for when talks between the Trump Organization and Russians ended on building a hotel in Moscow.He told a Senate committee that the talks ended in January 2016. In fact, talks continued until June as Mr. Trump was about to secure the Republican nomination. Cohen lied to avoid the narrative that Mr. Trump was negotiating with the Russians deep into the campaign. At the same time, Russia had hacked Democratic computers and was preparing to release stolen emails via WikiLeaks.Participants have said the idea for a Moscow hotel was started by Cohen’s longtime friend, Russia-born real estate developer Felix Sater. Mr. Trump has said the hotel talks were legal but that he took part only sparingly.Mr. Trump and his chief aides have denied Mr. Steele’s allegations that they engaged in an “extensive conspiracy” to hack computers and troll on social media. No Trump associate has been charged with that offense.	Conservative
The White House’s decision to issue a three-month “cease-fire” in the escalating trade war between the U.S. and China would be a welcome reprieve from the economic warfare between the two nations, but it remains unclear what tangible results can be achieved from the measure, a top House Democrat said Sunday.“A ceasefire on more China tariffs and further negotiations are welcome [but] China’s unfair trade must be countered with strategic and thoughtful policies,” New Jersey Democrat and Ranking Member  House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade Rep. Bill Pascrell said Sunday.“I will watch for answers, but so far I hear crickets. China’s non-market policies pose a myriad of problems for the US and global economies,” he said, noting that “any long-term solutions must stem the flow of outsourcing and boost American jobs.”Mr. Trump and Chinese President  Xi Jinping reportedly reached the deal during bilateral talks during the G-20 Summit in Buenos Aries, Argentina this past week.As part of the deal, Washington agreed not raise tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods to 25 percent by next month, a move Mr. Trump had vowed to take prior to the G-20 summit. Beijing agreed to purchase a “significant amount” of agricultural, energy, industrial goods from the U.S., Reuters reports, citing a White House statement.China and the U.S. also agreed to kick off talks on technology transfers, intellectual property rights, non-tariff barriers and cyber theft, administration officials say. Chinese officials on state-run media Sunday lauded the deal, saying both sided had reached an “important consensus” on economic and international trade issues. Both countries are currently enforcing a 10 percent tariff on imported goods from the U.S. and China, entering their respective nations“President’s negotiating skills on China [do not] impress me,” Rep. Pascrell said Sunday. “I’ll be watching whether this truce actually delivers or if Mr. Trump will just blow things up again,” he added.	Conservative
Rep.-elect Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez got into a Twitter spat with former Gov. Mike Huckabee — and then went after his daughter.The former Arkansas governor was mocking the 28-year-old democratic socialist for comparing her election this November to the 1969 Moon landing.“Big difference. Moon landing was LUNAR, not LOONEY; Moon landing done by ppl who knew what they were doing…those who elected someone who thought there were 3 branches of Congress did NOT,” he wrote, alluding to one of many miscues on basic civics that the rising Democratic star has made in recent months.Both barrels came firing back.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez started by saying that her platform would require “a level of ambition + innovation on the scale of the moon landing. We’ve been done it before, and can do it again.”Then she got personal.“Leave the false statements to Sarah Huckabee. She’s much better at it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said, going on to call the White House press secretary’s father a political has-been.“Also, you haven’t been a Governor of any state for 10+ years now,” she concluded.She then complained later in the Twitter thread of being ganged up on.“Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universe Have ALL gone after me, just to get lit up,” she wrote.“I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?” she asked.Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universeHave ALL gone after me, just to get lit up.I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?	Conservative
House Republicans on Monday said they have filed a bill that would keep the government running through Dec. 21 and push off an ongoing shutdown battle for a few weeks, as Washington presses pause on official business to mourn the death of former President George H.W. Bush.Congress has already passed legislation to fund about three-quarters of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget next year. That includes funding for the defense, labor, health, and veterans affairs departments.But if lawmakers don’t act before midnight Friday, funding for a number of other departments, such as the departments of commerce, justice, and homeland security, will lapse.The key hang-up is money for President Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall in the homeland security funding bill.Mr. Trump is pushing for $5 billion for the wall, which is in line what the House provided in its DHS funding bill.Democrats say he should accept the $1.6 billion for border security senators included in their 2019 DHS bill.Even still, Mr. Trump indicated over the weekend that he’d likely sign a stopgap extension to give lawmakers more time to negotiate in light of Mr. Bush’s death.	Conservative
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Monday that plans were in the works to scrap subsidies for electric cars and other renewable energy items, Reuters reported.Mr. Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council, said the subsidies could end as soon as 2020. It is part of the administration’s response to General Motors closing plants and cutting jobs in the U.S.President Trump last week threatened to end  electric car subsidies after GM announced five plant closings — four in the U.S. and one in Canada — as it cuts domestic production of sedans.The punishment would have limited impact on GM, however, because the automaker is on pace to sell too many electric cars to qualify for subsidies.Mr. Kudlow said the rollback of subsidies would also include “renewables.”	Conservative
Incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called on Congress Monday to raise salaries for staffers on Capitol Hill, saying that interns and aides are severely underpaid.The New York Democrat took to Twitter to describe eating at a “dive spot” in D.C. where several employees were also working in congressional offices.“It is unjust for Congress to budget a living wage for ourselves, yet rely on unpaid interns and underpaid overworked staff just [because] Republicans want to make a statement about ‘fiscal responsibility,’” she wrote.She also demanded that Republicans pay their staffers more by either cutting their staff or support raising the Members’ Representational Allowance, where the funds for staff salaries is pulled.	Conservative
President Trump’s top economic adviser said Monday he expects rapid action from China on trade concessions to the U.S., including big tariff reductions — maybe to zero — on automobiles.“They put stuff on the table that we have not seen before,” said Larry Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council.He said the commitments by Beijing include cutting tariffs and addressing theft of intellectual property that have topped Mr. Trump’s list of demands.“This is just an enormous, enormous event,” Mr. Kudlow told reports on a conference call.The breakthrough in trade talks included commitments from China for “immediate” action, he said.“So we’ll see,” Mr. Kudlow said. “But I can tell you I’ve never seen that immediately commitment before.”Mr. Kudlow said that the discussions he participated in lead him to believe Beijing would reduce the tariffs on autos from 40 percent to zero.The optimism at the White House stemmed from a truce in the trade war agreed to at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.The U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lower tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.	Conservative
Conservative author Jerome Corsi on Monday filed a criminal and ethics complaint against special counsel Robert Mueller alleging prosecutorial misconduct in the Russia investigation.The 78-page complaint alleges that Mr. Corsi “has been criminally threatened and coerced to tell a lie and call it the truth.”Peter Carr, a spokesman for the special counsel’s office, declined to comment.The complaint was filed to multiple government officials, including acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Jessie K. Liu, Justice Department inspector General Micheal Horowitz and the Bar Disciplinary Counsel.Mr. Corsi’s complaint alleges special counsel prosecutors pressured him to lie. He said Mueller’s team demanded he say he worked on behalf of the Trump campaign as a liaison to longtime political operative Roger Stone and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to coordinate the release of the hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign during the 2016 election.“Dr. Corsi has been threatened with immediate indictment by Mueller’s prosecutorial staff unless he testifies falsely against Roger Stone and/or President Donald Trump and his presidential campaign, among other false testimony,” wrote Mr. Corsi’s attorney Larry Klayman.According to the complaint, Mueller’s team is “knowingly and deceitfully threatening to charge Dr. Corsi with an alleged false statement,” unless he makes false statements about members of the Trump campaign and Mr. Stone.The special counsel’s office has been interested in Mr. Stone’s connections to Mr. Assange, and whether they conspired to leak the emails in an effort to hurt the Clinton campaign.Mr. Klayman, who founded conservative watchdog groups Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch, insists that Mr. Corsi had no advanced knowledge of WikiLeaks’ publishing of hacked DNC emails. Instead, Mr. Klayman contends, his client pieced it together by noticing emails by Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta were missing in the first batch of leaked emails and he assumed it would be in a second data dump.“Employing his professional skills and considerable experience as an analyst and investigative journalist, Dr. Corsi logically concluded that Wikileaks would release Podesta’s emails soon.”In an interview Monday with Newsmax, Mr. Klayman vowed that he will take the case to the Supreme Court, challenging  Mr. Mueller’s authority to investigate alleged ties between Russia and the Trump campaign.“We will challenge Mueller’s constitutional mandate to proceed, which is what the president should have been doing all these months. But we’ll do it,” he said. 	Conservative
The House is not expected to hold any votes for the rest of the week, GOP leaders announced Monday, as Washington turns its attention to the memorial services for former President George H.W. Bush.He will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.A memorial service at Washington National Cathedral is also scheduled to take place Wednesday, to be followed by a service and burial in Texas on Thursday.The Senate is scheduled to gavel in on Monday afternoon, but no votes are expected to be held until at least Wednesday.President Trump announced that Wednesday will be a national day of mourning. Federal employees are excused from work.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer are also asking the White House to postpone a meeting they were to have with Mr. Trump on Tuesday in light of the events surrounding Mr. Bush’s funeral, according to a Democratic aide.Lawmakers are facing an end-of-week deadline to pass new 2019 spending bills and avert a partial shutdown of the federal government.Congress has already passed — and Mr. Trump has signed — legislation to fund roughly 70 percent to 75 percent of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget for 2019.That means regardless of what happens this week, agencies such as the Pentagon, Health and Human Services, and Veterans Affairs are fully funded through September.But funding for the outstanding departments — which include the IRS, NASA and Homeland Security — will lapse if Congress doesn’t act by midnight Friday.Federal employees deemed “essential,” such as Border Patrol agents, would still report to work, though they could face delays in their pay. Others could be furloughed.Negotiators have reported progress on six of the remaining seven individual bills, but are still battling over funding for Mr. Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall.Mr. Trump says he wants $5 billion for wall money — in line with what House appropriators have written into their DHS funding bill — and has indicated that he could try to orchestrate a partial shutdown if he doesn’t get it.Democrats say he needs to accept the $1.6 billion for border security that senators include in their 2019 DHS spending bill.Lawmakers are now talking about approving another stopgap funding bill to keep the rest of the government running past Friday, which would give them more time to negotiate.If no members object, the House and Senate can bypass procedural hurdles to speed measures through.An aide said that while House Democrats favor a one-week stopgap bill, they would likely not object to passing a two-week bill via unanimous consent.Though Mr. Trump has been firm in his demands for $5 billion in wall money, he indicated over the weekend he’d be open to delaying the shutdown showdown beyond this week in light of Mr. Bush’s death.“If they come — which they have — to talk about an extension because of President Bush’s passing, I would absolutely consider it and probably give it,” the president told reporters aboard Air Force One.	Conservative
President Trump has named China hawk Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Representative, to lead trade talks with Beijing.The move was confirmed Monday by White House trade adviser Peter Navarro, another leading advocate of cracking down on China’s trade abuses.“He’s the toughest negotiator we’ve ever at the USTR and he’s going to go chapter and verse and get tariffs down, non-tariff barriers down and end all these structural practices that prevent market access,” Mr. Navarro said in an interview with National Public Radio.Mr. Lighthizer took over the negotiations after a breakthrough at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin, who is closer to the U.S. financial sector and viewed as less aggressive on China, previously had been leading the negotiations.At the dinner, the U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lowing tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.The president’s get-tough tariffs are credited with forcing China to the negotiating table with offers of concessions, something Beijing vowed it would never do.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey will be interviewed behind closed doors by lawmakers Friday morning, according to a House Judiciary Committee aide.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.But Mr. Comey filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly. Mr. Comey’s team believed the closed-door House session is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”He later withdrew his petition on Sunday, agreeing to sit down for the deposition with the ability to release a transcript to the public within 24 hours.Lawyers had told the judge his testimony would take place Tuesday, but the meeting has since been pushed back to 10 a.m. on Friday.According to the committee aide, the deposition was delayed due to the funeral of the late President George H.W. Bush.The 41st president, who passed away Friday at the age of 94, will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.	Conservative
Sen. John Kennedy announced Monday he will not be running for governor of his home state of Louisiana, saying he felt he could best serve his constituents in his current role.The Republican senator, who has become known on Capitol Hill for his witty one-liners to the press, said he would decide whether to jump in the race this week, with local media reporting he was considered one of the favorites.Mr. Kennedy said he wants to focus on the economy, jobs, health insurance, building a strong military and ending government waste as a member of the U.S. Senate.“I am fortunate to sit on powerful Senate committees that provide a venue to do that,” Mr. Kennedy said.He is not up for re-election until 2022.The election for his state’s next governor is set for October, and two people have already joined the race.Republican Eddie Rispone, a businessman, and Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, have already announced their candidacy, but local media reports said had Mr. Kennedy entered the race, he and Edwards would have been the favorites.	Conservative
President Trump threatened to close the southern border Monday and said building the wall would end up saving taxpayers money.“We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “Either way, people will NOT be allowed into our Country illegally! We will close the entire Southern Border if necessary. Also, STOP THE DRUGS!”Congress and the White House are facing a deadline Friday for funding parts of the federal government, although an extension of a week or two in the deadline is likely. Still unresolved is Mr. Trump’s request for more money to build the wall.The president also referred to his $716 billion defense budget as “crazy,” saying he hopes to save money on national security needs later on by negotiating nuclear arms reductions with Russia and China.	Conservative
It was the swiftness and ease with which he operated on the global stage that cemented President George Herbert Walker Bush’s legacy as a great leader who not only protected and advanced America’s interests around the world, but did it in a delicate, nuanced way respected by other powers and future allies.Mr. Bush’s admirers and former colleagues say this was most prominent in 1990, when he and then-Secretary of State James A. Baker moved with stunning speed to build an international coalition that included precedent-setting buy-in from otherwise divided Arab powers to oust Iraqi forces from Kuwait.His biographers have written that the inclusiveness and efficiency of Operation Desert Storm was his “greatest mark on history.”                                                                       SEE ALSO: Bush started a Republican dynasty more powerful, enduring than the Kennedys                                              But students of global affairs know there was actually something else — something much more subtle in the years leading up to the 1991 Gulf War — that truly secured Mr. Bush’s respect as a rare international statesman whose humble, peace-seeking geopolitical touch would impact the lives of millions.President Ronald Reagan may well have changed the world in 1987 when he called on former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down” the Berlin Wall. Yet, as current leaders across Europe have noted in recent days, it was George H.W. Bush who truly closed the book on the Cold War.It was he, they said, whose quiet, behind-the-scenes diplomacy in 1990 persuaded skeptical parties from Paris to London to Warsaw to Moscow to embrace and support the idea of a reunited Germany.                                                                        SEE ALSO: Bush remembered as peerless patriot, patriarch of political dynasty                                              Even as critics in Washington lambasted Mr. Bush for refusing to loudly declare victory in the collapse of a Communist bloc that had so long controlled half of Europe, America’s 41st president was determined to stay the course that the delicacy of the moment demanded.“President Bush’s calmness, leadership and close personal relationships with [then-German Chancellor] Helmut Kohl and Mikhail Gorbachev were decisive in restoring peace and freedom back to so many people across our continent,” European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement over the weekend. “We Europeans will forever remember this.”“He courageously seized the opportunity to end the Cold War,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Saturday in a statement. “He is also an architect of German unity. He supported it from the beginning without reservations. We will never forget that.”Mr. Bush was “a great statesman,” said British Prime Minister Theresa May. “In navigating a peaceful end to the Cold War, he made the world a safer place for generations to come.”The sentiments over the weekend stretched all the way to Moscow, where Russia’s Interfax news agency cited Mr. Gorbachev as recalling Mr. Bush as a “genuine partner.”Even Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has aggravated Washington with Cold War-style provocation in recent years, paid his respects Saturday, referring in a statement to Mr. Bush’s “political wisdom and foresight.”It was also a decisiveness undergirding his foresight that made Mr. Bush so effective as a coalition builder. With regard to the Gulf War, the former president’s closest aides say his decisiveness was born from a confidence that all had been done that could be done to avoid war before finally committing to the use of American military force.“He didn’t want to have a first Gulf War. He did everything he could to avoid it,” former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman and later Secretary of State Colin Powell said over the weekend. “We went to the United Nations, at the very last minute, when the war was about to start, he sent Jim Baker over to speak with the Iraqi prime minister and tell him, ‘You know, you don’t want to see this happen.’”Only when it was finally and fully clear that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein didn’t take the message to heart, Mr. Powell told NPR, Mr. Bush went into decision mode and “it was very clear what the war was all about.”“From the very beginning, it was a war that was defined in terms of what we were going to accomplish, and when it was over, we would come home,” he said. “And that’s exactly what we did … and it was because the president knew what he wanted. He had a specific mission.”‘A remarkable American legacy’With victory secured, the Gulf War’s long-term aftermath was something Mr. Bush would later suggest he was personally bothered by. The ousting of Iraqi forces from Kuwait didn’t lead to the Hussein regime’s downfall in Baghdad, a reality that led Mr. Bush to acknowledge in a 1996 interview that he felt he’d “miscalculated” the Iraqi dictator’s hold on power.Still, in contrast to the messy insurgency that eventually would envelop Iraq following the 2003 U.S.-led invasion authorized by his son, President George W. Bush, the decisiveness and mission clarity of Desert Storm have come to stand as a textbook example of how America can conduct coalition building.Mr. Bush knew of war’s horrors because he experienced it personally as a younger man. He was shot down as a fighter pilot in World War II while completing a bombing run against a Japanese radio tower. Eight others who were shot down in that mission were captured and executed.Such lore added to the depth of Mr. Bush’s character when he entered the House of Representatives in the late 1960s. It seemed that eventual executive and world leadership were inevitable for Mr. Bush when President Richard M. Nixon tapped him as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in 1971.Mr. Bush later obliged when Nixon’s successor, President Gerald R. Ford, asked him to become the chief U.S. envoy to China, a position he would hold until Mr. Ford nominated him to be director of the CIA in 1976.The sobriety with which he ran the CIA is often lost in examinations of his past. The CIA honored him in 1999 by naming its Northern Virginia headquarters the George Bush Center for Intelligence in recognition of his effective and respected leadership in keeping Washington politics from sullying the intelligence community’s work.“We’ve lost a great champion of the Agency — an accomplished Director, faithful advocate, and dear friend — with [his] passing,” current CIA Director Gina Haspel said in a statement over the weekend. “As a heroic Navy pilot in the Second World War, a skilled statesman who deftly managed the collapse of the Soviet Union and liberated Kuwait from Saddam Husayn’s aggression, and a committed citizen who remained engaged in public service throughout his later years, President Bush exemplified the virtues of patriotism, duty, and compassion.”It’s a reverence echoed by others who run America’s foreign and national security policies with the Trump administration.Mr. Bush led “a true life of service,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told CNN. “It’s a remarkable American legacy, and they don’t make them like that very often.”“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” said Defense Secretary James Mattis.“His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence,” said Mr. Mattis. “We will miss him, but at the going down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”	Conservative
He served in World War II as the nation’s youngest Navy combat pilot, surviving a fiery crash over Chichijima in 1944 and earning the Distinguished Flying Cross.Three decades later, he took the helm at the CIA and steered the spy agency out of an “all-time low” period of upheaval and controversy, providing stability and setting a template for leadership that his successors have followed.While his most enduring legacy is having been the 41st president of the United States and the patriarch of a towering political dynasty, George H.W. Bush also made an indelible mark as an American warrior, made history with his military service and left a lasting impression on the U.S. intelligence community.Mr. Bush died late Friday at his home in Houston. He was 94.His name forever will be tied to the fall of the Berlin Wall, America’s victory in the Cold War and the U.S.-led victory over Saddam Hussein’s Iraq in the Persian Gulf War of the early 1990s.But across the military and intelligence communities, officials say Mr. Bush will be remembered for his courage and leadership in the years long before he entered the Oval Office.“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” Defense Secretary James Mattis said in a statement late Friday. “His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence. We will miss him, but at the going-down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”At 18, Mr. Bush joined the military in 1942, months after the U.S. was thrust into World War II after the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. By June 1943, the future president had “earned his wings,” as the military puts it, making him the youngest Navy pilot at the time.Serving in the Pacific theater, Mr. Bush flew torpedo bomber missions off the deck of the USS San Jacinto. In 1944, his plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire that killed two of his crewmen, but he still completed the mission.Mr. Bush bailed out of the aircraft and was rescued by the submarine USS Finback.Even after his lifetime of political service, the 41st president maintained that one of his proudest moments was signing up for the armed forces — and he urged young men and women to follow his example.“Exactly half a century ago  we were at war, and I was graduating from school,” Mr. Bush said during his January 1993 farewell speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. “The speaker that day at Andover was the then-Secretary of War Henry Stimson. And his message was one of public service, but with a twist — on the importance of finishing one’s schooling before going off to fight for one’s country. I listened closely to what he had to say, but I didn’t take his advice.“And that day was my 18th birthday. And when the commencement ceremony ended, I went on into Boston and enlisted in the Navy as a seaman 2nd class,” he said. “And I never regretted it. You, too, have signed up. You, too, will never regret it. And I salute you for it.”After his military service, Mr. Bush married Barbara Pierce in January 1945, graduated from Yale University in 1948, thrived in the oil business and ultimately entered politics, running for election to the House of Representatives in 1966. He eventually exited Congress to serve as President Nixon’s ambassador to the United Nations.In 1976, Mr. Bush took another job that would help cement his pre-White House legacy. Appointed by President Ford, Mr. Bush took the reins at the CIA just a year after shocking revelations that the agency had spied on domestic anti-war groups and even brainstormed assassination plots against foreign leaders.Amid broad distrust in government after the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal, Mr. Bush steered the CIA back on course at a crucial moment in history, restoring some level of public faith in the agency and ultimately leaving a mark as one of its most important directors, despite serving in the post for only one year.“Though his tenure was limited, his accomplishments were not. Bush joined the agency at a tumultuous time when morale was at an all-time low,” the CIA said in a statement over the weekend. “He believed strongly in the mission of the agency, and he believed in the CIA officers serving their nation. As [director of the Central Intelligence Agency,] he immediately established himself as a leader who restored the morale and reputation of the CIA.”Specifically, it was Mr. Bush’s broad experience as a war pilot, member of Congress and diplomat that gave him the political gravitas the CIA desperately needed at the time.“His tenure provided a meaningful and helpful ‘calm between the storms’ for the agency in the 1970s,” the CIA said. “As the first [director] who had served in Congress, Bush had the political influence to reshape the way the agency was viewed among its most important stakeholders — the president of the United States and U.S. policymakers.”	Conservative
The late President George H.W. Bush’s last words before he died Friday night were to his eldest son, President George W. Bush, who he spoke with over the phone.James Baker, former chief of staff to the 41st president, told CNN that just before the president passed away, he spoke to his children and told his eldest son, “I love you, too.”Mr. Baker, who frequently visited Mr. Bush while he was ill, described his passing as “peaceful.”“He used to refer to our relationship as big brother, little brother … that is a characterization I take as quite an honor. I consider him to be my best friend,” Mr. Baker told CNN on Sunday.Mr. Bush passed away Friday night, roughly seven months after losing his wife of 73 years, Barbara Bush, in April.“He really wasn’t ready to go after Barbara died, but by the time he got back here in Houston from his summer … I think he was pretty much ready to go. The quality of life had deteriorated a lot for him,” Mr. Baker said.The late president will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.The last person to lie in state was the late Sen. John McCain, who passed away in August.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey said Sunday he plans to sit down with lawmakers this week behind closed doors, asking the court to withdraw his motion to halt their subpoena.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.He filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly, but said the closed-door session the House has planned is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”“Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” Mr. Comey tweeted Sunday.The deposition is set for Friday.House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte anticipated Mr. Comey would withdraw his legal motion.“The parties have been working together,” Mr. Goodlatte told Fox News. “I think that the strength of the presentation by Tom Hungar, the House counsel, on Friday in the House’s brief is very compelling.”The federal judge who heard from the parties on Friday put off issuing a decision until Monday morning, where he was expected to continue the hearing.But on Sunday, Mr. Comey’s lawyers petitioned the court to withdraw his earlier filing and cancel Monday’s hearing, which the judge granted.“Mr. Comey appreciates the court’s attention to the above-captioned matter, but has now reached an acceptable accommodation with U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary for voluntary testimony,” Mr. Comey’s lawyers said in court papers.Mr. Goodlatte, who is retiring at the end of the year, told Fox News his committee needs to speak with Mr. Comey, so it can wrap up the probe into FBI actions during the 2016 election, and the use of a FISA court to conduct surveillance on Trump campaign associates.With Democrats taking charge of the committee in January, it’s expected they would not continue pursuing the matter. But Mr. Goodlatte said he believes the incoming chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Sen. Lindsey Graham will continue to investigate what transpired during the 2016 election.“Mr. Comey’s testimony is a critical part of that,” Mr. Goodlatte said.The top Democrat on the committee Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York, who is pegged to become the new committee chair in the incoming Congress, told NBC News the behind-door interview is inadequate and a public transcript doesn’t suffice.“Let Comey testify in public. There is no military secrets here,” Mr. Nadler said on Sunday. “We ought to have openness and accountability to the American public.”Rep. Trey Gowdy, South Carolina Republican, who leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said a public hearing isn’t the solution and suggested video taping Mr. Comey’s deposition could remedy any concern over leaks.“That way the public can see whether the question was fair. They can judge the entirety of the answer,” Mr. Gowdy previously told CBS.	Conservative
Rep.-elect Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez got into a Twitter spat with former Gov. Mike Huckabee — and then went after his daughter.The former Arkansas governor was mocking the 28-year-old democratic socialist for comparing her election this November to the 1969 Moon landing.“Big difference. Moon landing was LUNAR, not LOONEY; Moon landing done by ppl who knew what they were doing…those who elected someone who thought there were 3 branches of Congress did NOT,” he wrote, alluding to one of many miscues on basic civics that the rising Democratic star has made in recent months.Both barrels came firing back.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez started by saying that her platform would require “a level of ambition + innovation on the scale of the moon landing. We’ve been done it before, and can do it again.”Then she got personal.“Leave the false statements to Sarah Huckabee. She’s much better at it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said, going on to call the White House press secretary’s father a political has-been.“Also, you haven’t been a Governor of any state for 10+ years now,” she concluded.She then complained later in the Twitter thread of being ganged up on.“Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universe Have ALL gone after me, just to get lit up,” she wrote.“I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?” she asked.Now:- GOP VP candidate (fmr)- Sitting GOP US Senator- GOP Governor (fmr)- US Senator that killed the Public Option- Entire Conservative Cable News Channel + YouTube universeHave ALL gone after me, just to get lit up.I’m not even sworn in yet. Don’t y’all have jobs to do?	Conservative
House Republicans on Monday said they have filed a bill that would keep the government running through Dec. 21 and push off an ongoing shutdown battle for a few weeks, as Washington presses pause on official business to mourn the death of former President George H.W. Bush.Congress has already passed legislation to fund about three-quarters of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget next year. That includes funding for the defense, labor, health, and veterans affairs departments.But if lawmakers don’t act before midnight Friday, funding for a number of other departments, such as the departments of commerce, justice, and homeland security, will lapse.The key hang-up is money for President Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall in the homeland security funding bill.Mr. Trump is pushing for $5 billion for the wall, which is in line what the House provided in its DHS funding bill.Democrats say he should accept the $1.6 billion for border security senators included in their 2019 DHS bill.Even still, Mr. Trump indicated over the weekend that he’d likely sign a stopgap extension to give lawmakers more time to negotiate in light of Mr. Bush’s death.	Conservative
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Monday that plans were in the works to scrap subsidies for electric cars and other renewable energy items, Reuters reported.Mr. Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council, said the subsidies could end as soon as 2020. It is part of the administration’s response to General Motors closing plants and cutting jobs in the U.S.President Trump last week threatened to end  electric car subsidies after GM announced five plant closings — four in the U.S. and one in Canada — as it cuts domestic production of sedans.The punishment would have limited impact on GM, however, because the automaker is on pace to sell too many electric cars to qualify for subsidies.Mr. Kudlow said the rollback of subsidies would also include “renewables.”	Conservative
Incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called on Congress Monday to raise salaries for staffers on Capitol Hill, saying that interns and aides are severely underpaid.The New York Democrat took to Twitter to describe eating at a “dive spot” in D.C. where several employees were also working in congressional offices.“It is unjust for Congress to budget a living wage for ourselves, yet rely on unpaid interns and underpaid overworked staff just [because] Republicans want to make a statement about ‘fiscal responsibility,’” she wrote.She also demanded that Republicans pay their staffers more by either cutting their staff or support raising the Members’ Representational Allowance, where the funds for staff salaries is pulled.	Conservative
President Trump’s top economic adviser said Monday he expects rapid action from China on trade concessions to the U.S., including big tariff reductions — maybe to zero — on automobiles.“They put stuff on the table that we have not seen before,” said Larry Kudlow, director of the president’s National Economic Council.He said the commitments by Beijing include cutting tariffs and addressing theft of intellectual property that have topped Mr. Trump’s list of demands.“This is just an enormous, enormous event,” Mr. Kudlow told reports on a conference call.The breakthrough in trade talks included commitments from China for “immediate” action, he said.“So we’ll see,” Mr. Kudlow said. “But I can tell you I’ve never seen that immediately commitment before.”Mr. Kudlow said that the discussions he participated in lead him to believe Beijing would reduce the tariffs on autos from 40 percent to zero.The optimism at the White House stemmed from a truce in the trade war agreed to at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.The U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lower tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.	Conservative
Conservative author Jerome Corsi on Monday filed a criminal and ethics complaint against special counsel Robert Mueller alleging prosecutorial misconduct in the Russia investigation.The 78-page complaint alleges that Mr. Corsi “has been criminally threatened and coerced to tell a lie and call it the truth.”Peter Carr, a spokesman for the special counsel’s office, declined to comment.The complaint was filed to multiple government officials, including acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Jessie K. Liu, Justice Department inspector General Micheal Horowitz and the Bar Disciplinary Counsel.Mr. Corsi’s complaint alleges special counsel prosecutors pressured him to lie. He said Mueller’s team demanded he say he worked on behalf of the Trump campaign as a liaison to longtime political operative Roger Stone and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to coordinate the release of the hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign during the 2016 election.“Dr. Corsi has been threatened with immediate indictment by Mueller’s prosecutorial staff unless he testifies falsely against Roger Stone and/or President Donald Trump and his presidential campaign, among other false testimony,” wrote Mr. Corsi’s attorney Larry Klayman.According to the complaint, Mueller’s team is “knowingly and deceitfully threatening to charge Dr. Corsi with an alleged false statement,” unless he makes false statements about members of the Trump campaign and Mr. Stone.The special counsel’s office has been interested in Mr. Stone’s connections to Mr. Assange, and whether they conspired to leak the emails in an effort to hurt the Clinton campaign.Mr. Klayman, who founded conservative watchdog groups Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch, insists that Mr. Corsi had no advanced knowledge of WikiLeaks’ publishing of hacked DNC emails. Instead, Mr. Klayman contends, his client pieced it together by noticing emails by Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta were missing in the first batch of leaked emails and he assumed it would be in a second data dump.“Employing his professional skills and considerable experience as an analyst and investigative journalist, Dr. Corsi logically concluded that Wikileaks would release Podesta’s emails soon.”In an interview Monday with Newsmax, Mr. Klayman vowed that he will take the case to the Supreme Court, challenging  Mr. Mueller’s authority to investigate alleged ties between Russia and the Trump campaign.“We will challenge Mueller’s constitutional mandate to proceed, which is what the president should have been doing all these months. But we’ll do it,” he said. 	Conservative
The House is not expected to hold any votes for the rest of the week, GOP leaders announced Monday, as Washington turns its attention to the memorial services for former President George H.W. Bush.He will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.A memorial service at Washington National Cathedral is also scheduled to take place Wednesday, to be followed by a service and burial in Texas on Thursday.The Senate is scheduled to gavel in on Monday afternoon, but no votes are expected to be held until at least Wednesday.President Trump announced that Wednesday will be a national day of mourning. Federal employees are excused from work.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Charles E. Schumer are also asking the White House to postpone a meeting they were to have with Mr. Trump on Tuesday in light of the events surrounding Mr. Bush’s funeral, according to a Democratic aide.Lawmakers are facing an end-of-week deadline to pass new 2019 spending bills and avert a partial shutdown of the federal government.Congress has already passed — and Mr. Trump has signed — legislation to fund roughly 70 percent to 75 percent of the approximately $1.2 trillion federal discretionary budget for 2019.That means regardless of what happens this week, agencies such as the Pentagon, Health and Human Services, and Veterans Affairs are fully funded through September.But funding for the outstanding departments — which include the IRS, NASA and Homeland Security — will lapse if Congress doesn’t act by midnight Friday.Federal employees deemed “essential,” such as Border Patrol agents, would still report to work, though they could face delays in their pay. Others could be furloughed.Negotiators have reported progress on six of the remaining seven individual bills, but are still battling over funding for Mr. Trump’s desired U.S.-Mexico border wall.Mr. Trump says he wants $5 billion for wall money — in line with what House appropriators have written into their DHS funding bill — and has indicated that he could try to orchestrate a partial shutdown if he doesn’t get it.Democrats say he needs to accept the $1.6 billion for border security that senators include in their 2019 DHS spending bill.Lawmakers are now talking about approving another stopgap funding bill to keep the rest of the government running past Friday, which would give them more time to negotiate.If no members object, the House and Senate can bypass procedural hurdles to speed measures through.An aide said that while House Democrats favor a one-week stopgap bill, they would likely not object to passing a two-week bill via unanimous consent.Though Mr. Trump has been firm in his demands for $5 billion in wall money, he indicated over the weekend he’d be open to delaying the shutdown showdown beyond this week in light of Mr. Bush’s death.“If they come — which they have — to talk about an extension because of President Bush’s passing, I would absolutely consider it and probably give it,” the president told reporters aboard Air Force One.	Conservative
President Trump has named China hawk Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Representative, to lead trade talks with Beijing.The move was confirmed Monday by White House trade adviser Peter Navarro, another leading advocate of cracking down on China’s trade abuses.“He’s the toughest negotiator we’ve ever at the USTR and he’s going to go chapter and verse and get tariffs down, non-tariff barriers down and end all these structural practices that prevent market access,” Mr. Navarro said in an interview with National Public Radio.Mr. Lighthizer took over the negotiations after a breakthrough at a dinner meeting Saturday between Mr. Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Buenos Aires, where the leaders attended the Group of 20 leaders summit.Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin, who is closer to the U.S. financial sector and viewed as less aggressive on China, previously had been leading the negotiations.At the dinner, the U.S. agreed to a 90-day delay of higher tariffs that were set to hit China on Jan. 1 and Beijing agreed to begin opening up its markets to American goods.Mr. Trump said Beijing would lowing tariffs on cars, increase imports of U.S. agriculture and other goods. The details remain to be finalized before the new April deadline for more tariffs on Chinese goods.The president’s get-tough tariffs are credited with forcing China to the negotiating table with offers of concessions, something Beijing vowed it would never do.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey will be interviewed behind closed doors by lawmakers Friday morning, according to a House Judiciary Committee aide.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.But Mr. Comey filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly. Mr. Comey’s team believed the closed-door House session is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”He later withdrew his petition on Sunday, agreeing to sit down for the deposition with the ability to release a transcript to the public within 24 hours.Lawyers had told the judge his testimony would take place Tuesday, but the meeting has since been pushed back to 10 a.m. on Friday.According to the committee aide, the deposition was delayed due to the funeral of the late President George H.W. Bush.The 41st president, who passed away Friday at the age of 94, will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.	Conservative
Sen. John Kennedy announced Monday he will not be running for governor of his home state of Louisiana, saying he felt he could best serve his constituents in his current role.The Republican senator, who has become known on Capitol Hill for his witty one-liners to the press, said he would decide whether to jump in the race this week, with local media reporting he was considered one of the favorites.Mr. Kennedy said he wants to focus on the economy, jobs, health insurance, building a strong military and ending government waste as a member of the U.S. Senate.“I am fortunate to sit on powerful Senate committees that provide a venue to do that,” Mr. Kennedy said.He is not up for re-election until 2022.The election for his state’s next governor is set for October, and two people have already joined the race.Republican Eddie Rispone, a businessman, and Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, have already announced their candidacy, but local media reports said had Mr. Kennedy entered the race, he and Edwards would have been the favorites.	Conservative
President Trump threatened to close the southern border Monday and said building the wall would end up saving taxpayers money.“We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “Either way, people will NOT be allowed into our Country illegally! We will close the entire Southern Border if necessary. Also, STOP THE DRUGS!”Congress and the White House are facing a deadline Friday for funding parts of the federal government, although an extension of a week or two in the deadline is likely. Still unresolved is Mr. Trump’s request for more money to build the wall.The president also referred to his $716 billion defense budget as “crazy,” saying he hopes to save money on national security needs later on by negotiating nuclear arms reductions with Russia and China.	Conservative
It was the swiftness and ease with which he operated on the global stage that cemented President George Herbert Walker Bush’s legacy as a great leader who not only protected and advanced America’s interests around the world, but did it in a delicate, nuanced way respected by other powers and future allies.Mr. Bush’s admirers and former colleagues say this was most prominent in 1990, when he and then-Secretary of State James A. Baker moved with stunning speed to build an international coalition that included precedent-setting buy-in from otherwise divided Arab powers to oust Iraqi forces from Kuwait.His biographers have written that the inclusiveness and efficiency of Operation Desert Storm was his “greatest mark on history.”                                                                       SEE ALSO: Bush started a Republican dynasty more powerful, enduring than the Kennedys                                              But students of global affairs know there was actually something else — something much more subtle in the years leading up to the 1991 Gulf War — that truly secured Mr. Bush’s respect as a rare international statesman whose humble, peace-seeking geopolitical touch would impact the lives of millions.President Ronald Reagan may well have changed the world in 1987 when he called on former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down” the Berlin Wall. Yet, as current leaders across Europe have noted in recent days, it was George H.W. Bush who truly closed the book on the Cold War.It was he, they said, whose quiet, behind-the-scenes diplomacy in 1990 persuaded skeptical parties from Paris to London to Warsaw to Moscow to embrace and support the idea of a reunited Germany.                                                                        SEE ALSO: Bush remembered as peerless patriot, patriarch of political dynasty                                              Even as critics in Washington lambasted Mr. Bush for refusing to loudly declare victory in the collapse of a Communist bloc that had so long controlled half of Europe, America’s 41st president was determined to stay the course that the delicacy of the moment demanded.“President Bush’s calmness, leadership and close personal relationships with [then-German Chancellor] Helmut Kohl and Mikhail Gorbachev were decisive in restoring peace and freedom back to so many people across our continent,” European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement over the weekend. “We Europeans will forever remember this.”“He courageously seized the opportunity to end the Cold War,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Saturday in a statement. “He is also an architect of German unity. He supported it from the beginning without reservations. We will never forget that.”Mr. Bush was “a great statesman,” said British Prime Minister Theresa May. “In navigating a peaceful end to the Cold War, he made the world a safer place for generations to come.”The sentiments over the weekend stretched all the way to Moscow, where Russia’s Interfax news agency cited Mr. Gorbachev as recalling Mr. Bush as a “genuine partner.”Even Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has aggravated Washington with Cold War-style provocation in recent years, paid his respects Saturday, referring in a statement to Mr. Bush’s “political wisdom and foresight.”It was also a decisiveness undergirding his foresight that made Mr. Bush so effective as a coalition builder. With regard to the Gulf War, the former president’s closest aides say his decisiveness was born from a confidence that all had been done that could be done to avoid war before finally committing to the use of American military force.“He didn’t want to have a first Gulf War. He did everything he could to avoid it,” former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman and later Secretary of State Colin Powell said over the weekend. “We went to the United Nations, at the very last minute, when the war was about to start, he sent Jim Baker over to speak with the Iraqi prime minister and tell him, ‘You know, you don’t want to see this happen.’”Only when it was finally and fully clear that Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein didn’t take the message to heart, Mr. Powell told NPR, Mr. Bush went into decision mode and “it was very clear what the war was all about.”“From the very beginning, it was a war that was defined in terms of what we were going to accomplish, and when it was over, we would come home,” he said. “And that’s exactly what we did … and it was because the president knew what he wanted. He had a specific mission.”‘A remarkable American legacy’With victory secured, the Gulf War’s long-term aftermath was something Mr. Bush would later suggest he was personally bothered by. The ousting of Iraqi forces from Kuwait didn’t lead to the Hussein regime’s downfall in Baghdad, a reality that led Mr. Bush to acknowledge in a 1996 interview that he felt he’d “miscalculated” the Iraqi dictator’s hold on power.Still, in contrast to the messy insurgency that eventually would envelop Iraq following the 2003 U.S.-led invasion authorized by his son, President George W. Bush, the decisiveness and mission clarity of Desert Storm have come to stand as a textbook example of how America can conduct coalition building.Mr. Bush knew of war’s horrors because he experienced it personally as a younger man. He was shot down as a fighter pilot in World War II while completing a bombing run against a Japanese radio tower. Eight others who were shot down in that mission were captured and executed.Such lore added to the depth of Mr. Bush’s character when he entered the House of Representatives in the late 1960s. It seemed that eventual executive and world leadership were inevitable for Mr. Bush when President Richard M. Nixon tapped him as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in 1971.Mr. Bush later obliged when Nixon’s successor, President Gerald R. Ford, asked him to become the chief U.S. envoy to China, a position he would hold until Mr. Ford nominated him to be director of the CIA in 1976.The sobriety with which he ran the CIA is often lost in examinations of his past. The CIA honored him in 1999 by naming its Northern Virginia headquarters the George Bush Center for Intelligence in recognition of his effective and respected leadership in keeping Washington politics from sullying the intelligence community’s work.“We’ve lost a great champion of the Agency — an accomplished Director, faithful advocate, and dear friend — with [his] passing,” current CIA Director Gina Haspel said in a statement over the weekend. “As a heroic Navy pilot in the Second World War, a skilled statesman who deftly managed the collapse of the Soviet Union and liberated Kuwait from Saddam Husayn’s aggression, and a committed citizen who remained engaged in public service throughout his later years, President Bush exemplified the virtues of patriotism, duty, and compassion.”It’s a reverence echoed by others who run America’s foreign and national security policies with the Trump administration.Mr. Bush led “a true life of service,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told CNN. “It’s a remarkable American legacy, and they don’t make them like that very often.”“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” said Defense Secretary James Mattis.“His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence,” said Mr. Mattis. “We will miss him, but at the going down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”	Conservative
He served in World War II as the nation’s youngest Navy combat pilot, surviving a fiery crash over Chichijima in 1944 and earning the Distinguished Flying Cross.Three decades later, he took the helm at the CIA and steered the spy agency out of an “all-time low” period of upheaval and controversy, providing stability and setting a template for leadership that his successors have followed.While his most enduring legacy is having been the 41st president of the United States and the patriarch of a towering political dynasty, George H.W. Bush also made an indelible mark as an American warrior, made history with his military service and left a lasting impression on the U.S. intelligence community.Mr. Bush died late Friday at his home in Houston. He was 94.His name forever will be tied to the fall of the Berlin Wall, America’s victory in the Cold War and the U.S.-led victory over Saddam Hussein’s Iraq in the Persian Gulf War of the early 1990s.But across the military and intelligence communities, officials say Mr. Bush will be remembered for his courage and leadership in the years long before he entered the Oval Office.“President George Herbert Walker Bush, naval aviator, decorated in his youth for valor in combat, took his experience in war to build a better world as our commander in chief,” Defense Secretary James Mattis said in a statement late Friday. “His service to our nation demonstrated how we as a people can draw on our humility, diversity and devotion to our country to meet every challenge with fortitude and confidence. We will miss him, but at the going-down of the day, his example will long guide our sailors, soldiers, airmen and Marines for how to live life without regret.”At 18, Mr. Bush joined the military in 1942, months after the U.S. was thrust into World War II after the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor. By June 1943, the future president had “earned his wings,” as the military puts it, making him the youngest Navy pilot at the time.Serving in the Pacific theater, Mr. Bush flew torpedo bomber missions off the deck of the USS San Jacinto. In 1944, his plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire that killed two of his crewmen, but he still completed the mission.Mr. Bush bailed out of the aircraft and was rescued by the submarine USS Finback.Even after his lifetime of political service, the 41st president maintained that one of his proudest moments was signing up for the armed forces — and he urged young men and women to follow his example.“Exactly half a century ago  we were at war, and I was graduating from school,” Mr. Bush said during his January 1993 farewell speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. “The speaker that day at Andover was the then-Secretary of War Henry Stimson. And his message was one of public service, but with a twist — on the importance of finishing one’s schooling before going off to fight for one’s country. I listened closely to what he had to say, but I didn’t take his advice.“And that day was my 18th birthday. And when the commencement ceremony ended, I went on into Boston and enlisted in the Navy as a seaman 2nd class,” he said. “And I never regretted it. You, too, have signed up. You, too, will never regret it. And I salute you for it.”After his military service, Mr. Bush married Barbara Pierce in January 1945, graduated from Yale University in 1948, thrived in the oil business and ultimately entered politics, running for election to the House of Representatives in 1966. He eventually exited Congress to serve as President Nixon’s ambassador to the United Nations.In 1976, Mr. Bush took another job that would help cement his pre-White House legacy. Appointed by President Ford, Mr. Bush took the reins at the CIA just a year after shocking revelations that the agency had spied on domestic anti-war groups and even brainstormed assassination plots against foreign leaders.Amid broad distrust in government after the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal, Mr. Bush steered the CIA back on course at a crucial moment in history, restoring some level of public faith in the agency and ultimately leaving a mark as one of its most important directors, despite serving in the post for only one year.“Though his tenure was limited, his accomplishments were not. Bush joined the agency at a tumultuous time when morale was at an all-time low,” the CIA said in a statement over the weekend. “He believed strongly in the mission of the agency, and he believed in the CIA officers serving their nation. As [director of the Central Intelligence Agency,] he immediately established himself as a leader who restored the morale and reputation of the CIA.”Specifically, it was Mr. Bush’s broad experience as a war pilot, member of Congress and diplomat that gave him the political gravitas the CIA desperately needed at the time.“His tenure provided a meaningful and helpful ‘calm between the storms’ for the agency in the 1970s,” the CIA said. “As the first [director] who had served in Congress, Bush had the political influence to reshape the way the agency was viewed among its most important stakeholders — the president of the United States and U.S. policymakers.”	Conservative
The late President George H.W. Bush’s last words before he died Friday night were to his eldest son, President George W. Bush, who he spoke with over the phone.James Baker, former chief of staff to the 41st president, told CNN that just before the president passed away, he spoke to his children and told his eldest son, “I love you, too.”Mr. Baker, who frequently visited Mr. Bush while he was ill, described his passing as “peaceful.”“He used to refer to our relationship as big brother, little brother … that is a characterization I take as quite an honor. I consider him to be my best friend,” Mr. Baker told CNN on Sunday.Mr. Bush passed away Friday night, roughly seven months after losing his wife of 73 years, Barbara Bush, in April.“He really wasn’t ready to go after Barbara died, but by the time he got back here in Houston from his summer … I think he was pretty much ready to go. The quality of life had deteriorated a lot for him,” Mr. Baker said.The late president will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol Monday through Wednesday.The last person to lie in state was the late Sen. John McCain, who passed away in August.	Conservative
Former FBI Director James Comey said Sunday he plans to sit down with lawmakers this week behind closed doors, asking the court to withdraw his motion to halt their subpoena.GOP chairmen, who are about to lose power in the new Congress in January, have been trying to bring Mr. Comey to Capitol Hill to explain his decisions related to the 2016 election, particularly investigations into Hillary Clinton’s use of her personal email and the probe into Russian activities during the campaign.He filed a motion to halt their subpoena and delay the proceedings last week, with his attorney telling a federal judge on Friday he would talk publicly, but said the closed-door session the House has planned is a set-up to “peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigations through selective leaks.”“Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” Mr. Comey tweeted Sunday.The deposition is set for Friday.House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte anticipated Mr. Comey would withdraw his legal motion.“The parties have been working together,” Mr. Goodlatte told Fox News. “I think that the strength of the presentation by Tom Hungar, the House counsel, on Friday in the House’s brief is very compelling.”The federal judge who heard from the parties on Friday put off issuing a decision until Monday morning, where he was expected to continue the hearing.But on Sunday, Mr. Comey’s lawyers petitioned the court to withdraw his earlier filing and cancel Monday’s hearing, which the judge granted.“Mr. Comey appreciates the court’s attention to the above-captioned matter, but has now reached an acceptable accommodation with U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary for voluntary testimony,” Mr. Comey’s lawyers said in court papers.Mr. Goodlatte, who is retiring at the end of the year, told Fox News his committee needs to speak with Mr. Comey, so it can wrap up the probe into FBI actions during the 2016 election, and the use of a FISA court to conduct surveillance on Trump campaign associates.With Democrats taking charge of the committee in January, it’s expected they would not continue pursuing the matter. But Mr. Goodlatte said he believes the incoming chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Sen. Lindsey Graham will continue to investigate what transpired during the 2016 election.“Mr. Comey’s testimony is a critical part of that,” Mr. Goodlatte said.The top Democrat on the committee Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York, who is pegged to become the new committee chair in the incoming Congress, told NBC News the behind-door interview is inadequate and a public transcript doesn’t suffice.“Let Comey testify in public. There is no military secrets here,” Mr. Nadler said on Sunday. “We ought to have openness and accountability to the American public.”Rep. Trey Gowdy, South Carolina Republican, who leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said a public hearing isn’t the solution and suggested video taping Mr. Comey’s deposition could remedy any concern over leaks.“That way the public can see whether the question was fair. They can judge the entirety of the answer,” Mr. Gowdy previously told CBS.	Conservative
